<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 8790 Engrossed in House (EH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 8790

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To expedite under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and 
 improve forest management activities on National Forest System lands, 
     on public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
  Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to overgrown, 
           fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Fix Our Forests 
Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                  TITLE I--LANDSCAPE-SCALE RESTORATION

   Subtitle A--Addressing Emergency Wildfire Risks in High Priority 
                               Firesheds

Sec. 101. Designation of fireshed management areas.
Sec. 102. Fireshed center.
Sec. 103. Fireshed registry.
Sec. 104. Shared stewardship.
Sec. 105. Fireshed assessments.
Sec. 106. Emergency fireshed management.
Sec. 107. Sunset.
 Subtitle B--Expanding Collaborative Tools to Reduce Wildfire Risk and 
                         Improve Forest Health

Sec. 111. Modification of the treatment of certain revenue and payments 
                            under good neighbor agreements.
Sec. 112. Fixing stewardship end result contracting.
Sec. 113. Intra-agency strike teams.
Sec. 114. Locally-led restoration.
Sec. 115. Joint Chiefs landscape restoration partnership program.
Sec. 116. Collaborative forest landscape restoration program.
Sec. 117. Utilizing grazing for wildfire risk reduction.
Sec. 118. Program to support priority reforestation and restoration 
                            projects of Department of the Interior.
                     Subtitle C--Litigation Reform

Sec. 121. Commonsense litigation reform.
Sec. 122. Consultation on forest plans.
    TITLE II--PROTECTING COMMUNITIES IN THE WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE

Sec. 201. Community wildfire risk reduction program.
Sec. 202. Community wildfire defense research program.
Sec. 203. Vegetation management, facility inspection, and operation and 
                            maintenance relating to electric 
                            transmission and distribution facility 
                            rights-of-way.
Sec. 204. Categorical exclusion for electric utility lines rights-of-
                            way.
Sec. 205. Seeds of success.
                 TITLE III--TRANSPARENCY AND TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 301. Biochar innovations and opportunities for conservation, 
                            health, and advancements in research.
Sec. 302. Accurate hazardous fuels reduction reports.
Sec. 303. Public-private wildfire technology deployment and 
                            demonstration partnership.
Sec. 304. GAO study on Forest Service policies.
Sec. 305. Forest Service Western headquarters study.
Sec. 306. Keeping forest plans current and monitored.
Sec. 307. Container Aerial Firefighting System (CAFFS).
Sec. 308. Study on pine beetle infestation.
      TITLE IV--ENSURING CASUALTY ASSISTANCE FOR OUR FIREFIGHTERS

Sec. 401. Wildland Fire Management Casualty Assistance Program.
                     TITLE V--WHITE OAK RESILIENCE

Sec. 501. White Oak Restoration Initiative Coalition.
Sec. 502. Forest Service pilot program.
Sec. 503. Department of the Interior white oak review and restoration.
Sec. 504. White oak regeneration and upland oak habitat.
Sec. 505. Tree nursery shortages.
Sec. 506. White oak research.
Sec. 507. USDA formal initiative.
Sec. 508. Authorities.
 TITLE VI--EXPANSION OF PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS UNDER WATER SOURCE 
                           PROTECTION PROGRAM

Sec. 601. Water source protection program.
Sec. 602. Watershed condition framework technical corrections.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Fireshed Center appointed under section 102.
            (2) Fireshed.--The term ``fireshed'' means a landscape-
        scale area that faces similar wildfire threat where a response 
        strategy could influence the wildfire outcome.
            (3) Fireshed management project.--The term ``fireshed 
        management project'' means a project under section 106.
            (4) Fireshed registry.--The term ``Fireshed Registry'' 
        means the fireshed registry established under section 103.
            (5) Forest plan.--The term ``forest plan'' means--
                    (A) a land use plan prepared by the Bureau of Land 
                Management for public lands pursuant to section 202 of 
                the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1712);
                    (B) a land and resource management plan prepared by 
                the Forest Service for a unit of the National Forest 
                System pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and 
                Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 
                U.S.C. 1604); or
                    (C) a forest management plan (as defined in section 
                304 of the National Indian Forests Resources Management 
                Act (25 U.S.C. 3104)) with respect to Indian forest 
                land or rangeland.
            (6) Governor.--The term ``Governor'' means the Governor or 
        any other appropriate executive official of an affected State 
        or Indian Tribe or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
            (7) Hazardous fuels management activities.--The term 
        ``hazardous fuels management activities'' means any vegetation 
        management activities (or combination thereof) that reduce the 
        risk of wildfire, including mechanical thinning, mastication, 
        prescribed burning, cultural burning (as determined by the 
        applicable Indian Tribe), timber harvest, and grazing.
            (8) HFRA terms.--The terms ``at-risk community'', 
        ``community wildfire protection plan'', and ``wildland-urban 
        interface'' have the meanings given such terms, respectively, 
        in section 101 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 
        (16 U.S.C. 6511).
            (9) Indian forest land or rangeland.--The term ``Indian 
        forest land or rangeland'' means land that--
                    (A) is held in trust by, or with a restriction 
                against alienation by, the United States for an Indian 
                Tribe or a member of an Indian Tribe; and
                    (B)(i)(I) is Indian forest land (as defined in 
                section 304 of the National Indian Forest Resources 
                Management Act (25 U.S.C. 3103)); or
                                    (II) has a cover of grasses, brush, 
                                or any similar vegetation; or
                            (ii) formerly had a forest cover or 
                        vegetative cover that is capable of 
                        restoration.
            (10) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (11) National forest system lands.--The term ``National 
        Forest System lands'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning 
        Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609).
            (12) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 103 of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702), except that 
        the term includes Coos Bay Wagon Road Grant lands and Oregon 
        and California Railroad Grant lands.
            (13) Relevant congressional committees.--The term 
        ``relevant Congressional Committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committees on Natural Resources and 
                Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources 
                and Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.
            (14) Responsible official.--The term ``responsible 
        official'' means an employee of the Department of the Interior 
        or Forest Service who has the authority to make and implement a 
        decision on a proposed action.
            (15) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means each of--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (16) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (17) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                National Forest System lands; and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
                public lands.
            (18) Special district.--The term ``special district'' means 
        a political subdivision of a State that--
                    (A) has significant budgetary autonomy or control;
                    (B) was created by or pursuant to the laws of the 
                State for the purpose of performing a limited and 
                specific governmental or proprietary function; and
                    (C) is distinct from any other local government 
                unit within the State.
            (19) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, and each territory of the 
        United States.

                  TITLE I--LANDSCAPE-SCALE RESTORATION

   Subtitle A--Addressing Emergency Wildfire Risks in High Priority 
                               Firesheds

SEC. 101. DESIGNATION OF FIRESHED MANAGEMENT AREAS.

    (a) Designation of Fireshed Management Areas.--
            (1) Initial designations.--For the period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act and ending on the date that is 5 
        years after the date of enactment of this Act, there are 
        designated fireshed management areas, which--
                    (A) shall be comprised of individual landscape-
                scale firesheds identified as being a high risk 
                fireshed in the ``Wildfire Crisis Strategy'' published 
                by the Forest Service in January 2022;
                    (B) shall be comprised of individual landscape-
                scale firesheds identified by the Secretary, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, as 
                being in the top 20 percent of the 7,688 firesheds 
                published by the Rocky Mountain Research Station of the 
                Forest Service in 2019 for wildfire exposure based on 
                the following criteria--
                            (i) wildfire exposure and corresponding 
                        risk to communities, including risk to 
                        structures and life;
                            (ii) wildfire exposure and corresponding 
                        risk to municipal watersheds, including tribal 
                        water supplies and systems; and
                            (iii) risk of forest conversion due to 
                        wildfire;
                    (C) shall not overlap with any other fireshed 
                management areas;
                    (D) may contain Federal and non-Federal land, 
                including Indian forest lands or rangelands; and
                    (E) where the Secretary concerned shall carry out 
                fireshed management projects.
            (2) Further fireshed management area designations.--
                    (A) In general.--On the date that is 5 years after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act and every 5 years 
                thereafter, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
                Secretary of the Interior, shall submit to the relevant 
                Congressional Committees an updated map of firesheds 
                based on the Fireshed Registry maintained under section 
                103.
                    (B) Designation.--Not later than 60 days after 
                submitting an updated fireshed map under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall, based on such map, designate 
                additional fireshed management areas that are 
                identified as being in the top 20 percent of firesheds 
                at risk of wildfire exposure based on the criteria 
                specified in subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E) of 
                paragraph (1).
    (b) Applicability of Nepa.--The designation of fireshed management 
areas under this section shall not be subject to the requirements of 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

SEC. 102. FIRESHED CENTER.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the Chief of 
        the Forest Service, and the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
        through the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, shall 
        jointly establish a Fireshed Center (hereinafter referred to as 
        the ``Center'') comprised of at least one career representative 
        from each of the following:
                    (A) The Forest Service.
                    (B) The Bureau of Land Management.
                    (C) The National Park Service.
                    (D) The Bureau of Indian Affairs.
                    (E) The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
                    (F) The U.S. Geological Survey.
                    (G) The Department of Defense.
                    (H) The Department of Homeland Security.
                    (I) The Department of Energy.
                    (J) The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
                    (K) The National Science Foundation.
                    (L) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration.
                    (M) The National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration.
                    (N) The National Institute of Standards and 
                Technology.
            (2) Director.--The Secretary, acting through the Chief of 
        the Forest Service, and the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
        through the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, shall 
        jointly appoint a Director of the Center, who--
                    (A) shall be an employee of the U.S. Geological 
                Survey or the Forest Service;
                    (B) shall serve an initial term of not more than 7 
                years; and
                    (C) may serve one additional term of not more than 
                7 years after the initial term described in 
                subparagraph (B).
            (3) Additional representation.--The Secretary, acting 
        through the Chief of the Forest Service and the Secretary of 
        the Interior, acting through the Director of the U.S. 
        Geological Survey, may jointly appoint additional 
        representatives of Federal agencies to the Center, as the 
        Secretaries determine necessary.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Center are to--
            (1) comprehensively assess and predict, using data tools 
        (including artificial intelligence) and other decision support 
        products, fire and smoke in the wildland and built environment 
        interface across jurisdictions to inform--
                    (A) land and fuels management;
                    (B) community (including at-risk communities 
                identified in fireshed assessments conducted under 
                section 105), public health, and built environment risk 
                reduction; and
                    (C) fire response and post-fire recovery;
            (2) provide data aggregation, real-time land and fuels 
        management services, and science-based decision support 
        services;
            (3) reduce fragmentation and duplication across Federal 
        land management agencies with respect to predictive service and 
        decision support functions related to wildland fire and smoke;
            (4) promote coordination and sharing of data regarding 
        wildland fire and smoke decision making between Federal 
        agencies, States, Indian Tribes, local governments, academic or 
        research institutions, and private entities;
            (5) streamline procurement processes and cybersecurity 
        systems related to addressing wildland fire and smoke;
            (6) amplify and distribute existing, and develop as 
        necessary, publicly accessible data, models, technologies 
        (including mapping technologies), assessments, and National 
        Weather Service fire weather forecasts to support short- and 
        long-term planning regarding wildland fire and smoke risk 
        reduction and post-fire recovery while avoiding duplicative 
        efforts;
            (7) maintain the Fireshed Registry established under 
        section 103; and
            (8) disseminate data tools (including artificial 
        intelligence) and other decision support products, for use in 
        manners consistent with the purposes described paragraphs (1) 
        through (7), to the following:
                    (A) Federal agencies.
                    (B) Indian Tribes.
                    (C) State and local governments.
                    (D) Academic or research institutions.
                    (E) Other entities, public or private, identified 
                by the Director.
    (c) Memoranda of Understanding.--The Center may enter into 
memorandums of understanding, contracts, or other agreements with State 
governments, Indian Tribes, local governments, academic or research 
institutions, and private entities to improve the information and 
operations of the Center.
    (d) Administrative Support, Technical Services, and Staff 
Support.--
            (1) USGS support.--The Secretary of the Interior shall make 
        personnel of the U.S. Geological Survey available to the Center 
        for such administrative support, technical services, and 
        development and dissemination of data as the Secretary 
        determines necessary to carry out this section.
            (2) USFS support.--The Secretary shall make personnel of 
        the Forest Service available to the Center for such 
        administrative support, technical services, and the development 
        and dissemination of information related to fireshed management 
        and the Fireshed Registry as the Secretary determines necessary 
        to carry out this section.

SEC. 103. FIRESHED REGISTRY.

    (a) Fireshed Registry.--The Secretary, acting through the Director 
of the Fireshed Center appointed under section 102, shall maintain a 
Fireshed Registry on a publicly accessible website that provides 
interactive geospatial data on individual firesheds, including 
information on--
            (1) wildfire exposure delineated by ownership, including 
        rights-of-way for utilities and other public or private 
        purposes;
            (2) any hazardous fuels management activities that have 
        occurred within an individual fireshed in the past 10 years;
            (3) wildfire exposure with respect to such fireshed 
        delineated by--
                    (A) wildfire exposure and corresponding risk to 
                communities, including risk to structures and life;
                    (B) wildfire exposure and corresponding risk to 
                municipal watersheds, including tribal water supplies 
                and systems; and
                    (C) risk of forest conversion due to wildfire;
            (4) the percentage of the fireshed that has burned in 
        wildfires in the past 10 years, including, to the extent 
        practicable, delineations of acres that have burned at a high 
        severity;
            (5) spatial patterns of wildfire exposure, including 
        plausible extreme fire events; and
            (6) any hazardous fuels management activities planned for 
        the fireshed, including fireshed management projects.
    (b) Community Wildfire Protection Plans.--The Director shall make 
data from the Fireshed Registry available to local communities 
developing or updating community wildfire protection plans.
    (c) Requirement to Maintain.--As part of the website containing the 
Fireshed Registry, the Director shall--
            (1) publish fireshed assessments created under section 105; 
        and
            (2) maintain a searchable database to track--
                    (A) the status of Federal environmental reviews, 
                permits, and authorizations for fireshed management 
                projects, including--
                            (i) a comprehensive permitting timetable;
                            (ii) the status of the compliance of each 
                        lead agency, cooperating agency, and 
                        participating agency with the permitting 
                        timetable with respect to such fireshed 
                        management projects;
                            (iii) any modifications of the permitting 
                        timetable required under clause (i), including 
                        an explanation as to why the permitting 
                        timetable was modified; and
                            (iv) information about project-related 
                        public meetings, public hearings, and public 
                        comment periods, which shall be presented in 
                        English and the predominant language of the 
                        community or communities most affected by the 
                        project, as that information becomes available;
                    (B) the projected cost of such fireshed management 
                projects; and
                    (C) in the case of completed fireshed management 
                projects, the effectiveness of such projects in 
                reducing the wildfire exposure within an applicable 
                fireshed, including wildfire exposure described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C) of subsection (a)(3).
    (d) Reliance on Existing Assessments.--In carrying out this 
section, the Director may rely on assessments completed or data gather 
through existing partnerships, to the extent practicable.

SEC. 104. SHARED STEWARDSHIP.

    (a) Joint Agreements.--Not later than 90 days after receiving a 
written request from a Governor of a State or an Indian Tribe, the 
Secretary concerned shall enter into a shared stewardship agreement (or 
similar agreement) with such Governor or Indian Tribe to jointly--
            (1) promote the reduction of wildfire exposure, based on 
        the criteria in section 101(a)(1)(B), in fireshed management 
        areas across jurisdictional boundaries; and
            (2) conduct fireshed assessments under section 105.
    (b) Additional Fireshed Management Areas.--With respect to a shared 
stewardship agreement (or similar agreement) with a Governor of a State 
or an Indian Tribe entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary 
concerned, if requested by such Governor or Indian Tribe, may--
            (1) designate additional fireshed management areas under 
        such agreement; and
            (2) update such agreement to address new wildfire threats.

SEC. 105. FIRESHED ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) Fireshed Assessments.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary concerned enters into an agreement with a 
        Governor of a State or an Indian Tribe under section 104, the 
        Secretary concerned and such Governor or Indian Tribe shall, 
        with respect to the fireshed management areas designated in 
        such State, jointly conduct a fireshed assessment that--
                    (A) identifies--
                            (i) using the best available science, 
                        wildfire exposure risks within each such 
                        fireshed management area, including scenario 
                        planning and wildfire hazard mapping and 
                        models; and
                            (ii) each at-risk community within each 
                        fireshed management area;
                    (B) identifies potential fireshed management 
                projects to be carried out in such fireshed management 
                areas, giving priority--
                            (i) primarily, to projects with the purpose 
                        of reducing--
                                    (I) wildfire exposure and 
                                corresponding risk to communities, 
                                including risk to structures and life;
                                    (II) wildfire exposure and 
                                corresponding risk to municipal 
                                watersheds, including tribal water 
                                supplies and systems;
                                    (III) risk of forest conversion due 
                                to wildfire; or
                                    (IV) any combination of purposes 
                                described in subclauses (I) through 
                                (III); and
                            (ii) secondarily, to projects with the 
                        purpose of protecting--
                                    (I) critical infrastructure, 
                                including utility infrastructure;
                                    (II) wildlife habitats, including 
                                habitat for species listed under the 
                                Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 
                                et seq.);
                                    (III) the built environment, 
                                including residential and commercial 
                                buildings;
                                    (IV) resources of an Indian Tribe, 
                                as defined by the Indian Tribe; or
                                    (V) any combination of purposes 
                                described in subclauses (I) through 
                                (IV);
                    (C) includes--
                            (i) a strategy for reducing the threat of 
                        wildfire to at-risk communities in the 
                        wildland-urban interface on both Federal and 
                        non-Federal land;
                            (ii) a timeline for the implementation of 
                        fireshed management projects;
                            (iii) long-term benchmark goals for the 
                        completion of fireshed management projects in 
                        the highest wildfire exposure areas so that 
                        such projects contribute to the development and 
                        maintenance of healthy and resilient 
                        landscapes;
                            (iv) policies to ensure fireshed management 
                        projects comply with applicable forest plans 
                        and incorporate the best available science; and
                            (v) a strategy for reducing the threat of 
                        wildfire to improve the effectiveness of 
                        wildland firefighting, particularly the 
                        effectiveness of fuels treatments that would 
                        improve wildland firefighter safety during 
                        wildfires;
                    (D) shall be regularly updated based on the best 
                available science, as determined by the Secretary 
                concerned; and
                    (E) shall be publicly available on a website 
                maintained by the Secretary concerned.
            (2) Local government participation.--Upon the written 
        request of a local government, the Secretary concerned and the 
        Governor of the State in which the local government is located 
        may allow such local government to participate in producing the 
        fireshed assessment under paragraph (1) for such State.
            (3) Information improvement.--
                    (A) Memorandums of understanding.--In carrying out 
                a fireshed assessment under this subsection, the 
                Secretary concerned may enter into memorandums of 
                understanding with other Federal agencies or 
                departments (including the National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration), States, Indian Tribes, 
                private entities, or research or educational 
                institutions to improve, with respect to such 
                assessment, the use and integration of--
                            (i) advanced remote sensing and geospatial 
                        technologies;
                            (ii) statistical modeling and analysis; or
                            (iii) any other technology or combination 
                        of technologies and analyses that the Secretary 
                        concerned determines will benefit the quality 
                        of information of such an assessment.
                    (B) Best available science.--In using the best 
                available science for the fireshed assessments 
                completed under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary 
                concerned and Governor shall, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, incorporate--
                            (i) traditional ecological knowledge from 
                        Indian Tribes;
                            (ii) data from State forest action plans 
                        and State wildfire risk assessments;
                            (iii) data from the Fireshed Registry 
                        maintained under section 103; and
                            (iv) data from other Federal, State, 
                        Tribal, and local governments or agencies.
    (b) Applicability of NEPA.--Fireshed assessments conducted under 
this section shall not be subject to the requirements of the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

SEC. 106. EMERGENCY FIRESHED MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Fireshed Management Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary concerned, acting through a 
        responsible official, shall carry out fireshed management 
        projects in fireshed management areas designated under section 
        101 in accordance with this section.
            (2) Fireshed management projects.--The responsible official 
        shall carry out the following forest and vegetation management 
        activities as fireshed management projects under this section:
                    (A) Conducting hazardous fuels management 
                activities.
                    (B) Creating fuel breaks and fire breaks.
                    (C) Removing hazard trees, dead trees, dying trees, 
                or trees at risk of dying, as determined by the 
                responsible official.
                    (D) Developing, approving, or conducting routine 
                maintenance under a vegetation management, facility 
                inspection, and operation and maintenance plan 
                submitted under section 512(c)(1) of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                1772(c)(1)).
                    (E) Removing trees to address overstocking or 
                crowding in a forest stand, consistent with the 
                appropriate basal area of the forest stand as 
                determined by the responsible official.
                    (F) Using chemical or re-seeding and planting 
                treatments to address insects and disease and control 
                vegetation competition or invasive species.
                    (G) Any activities recommended by an applicable 
                fireshed assessment carried out under section 105.
                    (H) Any activities recommended by an applicable 
                community wildfire protection plan.
                    (I) Any combination of activities described in this 
                paragraph.
            (3) Emergency fireshed management.--
                    (A) In general.--For any fireshed management area 
                designated under section 101, the following shall have 
                the force and effect of law:
                            (i) Section 220.4(b) of title 36, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date 
                        of enactment of this Act), with respect to 
                        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
                            (ii) Section 46.150 of title 43, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date 
                        of enactment of this Act), with respect to 
                        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
                        of the Interior.
                            (iii) Section 402.05 of title 50, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date 
                        of enactment of this Act).
                            (iv) Section 800.12 of title 36, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date 
                        of enactment of this Act).
                    (B) Utilization of existing streamlined authorities 
                in fireshed management areas.--
                            (i) In general.--Fireshed management 
                        projects carried out under this section shall 
                        be considered authorized projects under the 
                        following categorical exclusions:
                                    (I) Section 603(a) of the Healthy 
                                Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
                                U.S.C. 6591b(a)).
                                    (II) Section 605(a) of the Healthy 
                                Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
                                U.S.C. 6591d(a)).
                                    (III) Section 606(b) of the Healthy 
                                Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
                                U.S.C. 6591e(b)).
                                    (IV) Section 40806(b) of the 
                                Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act 
                                (16 U.S.C. 6592b(b)).
                                    (V) Section 4(c)(4) of the Lake 
                                Tahoe Restoration Act (Public Law 106-
                                506; 114 Stat. 2353).
                                    (VI) Subject to subsection (d) of 
                                section 40807 of the Infrastructure 
                                Investment and Jobs Act (16 U.S.C. 
                                6592c) in the same manner as authorized 
                                emergency actions (as defined in 
                                subsection (a) of such section) are 
                                subject to such subsection.
                            (ii) Use of expedited authorities.--In 
                        carrying out a fireshed management project, the 
                        Secretary shall apply a categorical exclusion 
                        under clause (i)--
                                    (I) in a manner consistent with the 
                                statute establishing such categorical 
                                exclusion; and
                                    (II) in any area--
                                            (aa) designated as suitable 
                                        for timber production within 
                                        the applicable forest plan; or
                                            (bb) where timber harvest 
                                        activities are not prohibited.
                            (iii) Fiscal responsibility act 
                        requirements.--In carrying out this section, 
                        the Secretary concerned shall ensure compliance 
                        with the amendments made to the National 
                        Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                        seq.) by the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 
                        (Public Law 118-5).
                            (iv) Use of other authorities.--To the 
                        maximum extent practicable, the Secretary 
                        concerned shall use the authorities provided 
                        under this section in combination with other 
                        authorities to carry out fireshed management 
                        projects, including--
                                    (I) good neighbor agreements 
                                entered into under section 8206 of the 
                                Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 
                                2113a) (as amended by this Act);
                                    (II) stewardship contracting 
                                projects entered into under section 604 
                                of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act 
                                of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6591c) (as amended 
                                by this Act);
                                    (III) self-determination contracts 
                                and self-governance compact agreements 
                                entered into under the Indian Self-
                                Determination and Education Assistance 
                                Act (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.); and
                                    (IV) agreements entered into under 
                                the Tribal Forest Protection Act of 
                                2004 (25 U.S.C. 3115a et seq.).
    (b) Expansion.--
            (1) HFRA amendments.--The Healthy Forests Restoration Act 
        of 2003 is amended--
                    (A) in section 3 (16 U.S.C. 6502), by inserting at 
                the end the following:
            ``(3) Local government.--The term `local government' means 
        a county, municipality, or special district.
            ``(4) Special district.--The term `special district' means 
        a political subdivision of a State that--
                    ``(A) has significant budgetary autonomy or 
                control;
                    ``(B) was created by or pursuant to the laws of the 
                State for the purpose of performing a limited and 
                specific governmental or proprietary function; and
                    ``(C) is distinct from any other local government 
                unit within the State.''.
                    (B) in section 603(c)(1) (16 U.S.C. 6591b(c)(1)), 
                by striking ``3000 acres'' and inserting ``10,000 
                acres'';
                    (C) in section 603(c)(2)(B) (16 U.S.C. 
                6591b(c)(2)(B)), by striking ``Fire Regime Groups I, 
                II, or III'' and inserting ``Fire Regime I, Fire Regime 
                II, Fire Regime III, Fire Regime IV, or Fire Regime 
                V'';
                    (D) in section 605(c)(1) (16 U.S.C. 6591d(c)(1)), 
                by striking ``3000 acres'' and inserting ``10,000 
                acres''; and
                    (E) in section 606(g) (16 U.S.C. 6591e(g)), by 
                striking ``4,500 acres'' and inserting ``10,000 
                acres''.
            (2) Infrastructure investment and jobs act amendment.--
        Section 40806(d)(1) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 6592b(d)(1)), by striking ``3,000 acres'' and 
        inserting ``10,000 acres''.
            (3) Lake tahoe restoration act amendments.--Section 
        4(c)(4)(C) of the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act (Public Law 106-
        506; 114 Stat. 2353) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Lake Tahoe Basin Management 
                Unit''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``applicable to the area'' before 
                the period at the end.

SEC. 107. SUNSET.

    The authority under this subtitle shall terminate on the date that 
is 7 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

 Subtitle B--Expanding Collaborative Tools to Reduce Wildfire Risk and 
                         Improve Forest Health

SEC. 111. MODIFICATION OF THE TREATMENT OF CERTAIN REVENUE AND PAYMENTS 
              UNDER GOOD NEIGHBOR AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Good Neighbor Authority.--Section 8206 of the Agricultural Act 
of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 2113a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(6), by striking ``or Indian tribe'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by inserting the following:
            ``(11) Special district.--The term `special district' means 
        a political subdivision of a State that--
                    ``(A) has significant budgetary autonomy or 
                control;
                    ``(B) was created by or pursuant to the laws of the 
                State for the purpose of performing a limited and 
                specific governmental or proprietary function; and
                    ``(C) is distinct from any other local government 
                unit within the State.''.
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``, Indian 
                tribe, special district,'' after ``Governor'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(C)--
                            (i) by striking clause (i) and inserting 
                        the following:
                            ``(i) In general.--Funds received from the 
                        sale of timber or forest product by a Governor, 
                        an Indian tribe, a special district, or a 
                        county under a good neighbor agreement shall be 
                        retained and used by the Governor, Indian 
                        tribe, special district, or county, as 
                        applicable--
                                    ``(I) to carry out authorized 
                                restoration services under the good 
                                neighbor agreement;
                                    ``(II) to carry out reconstruction, 
                                repair, and restoration of non-National 
                                Forest System roads necessary to 
                                implement projects on Federal lands;
                                    ``(III) to construct new permanent 
                                roads on Federal lands that are--
                                            ``(aa) necessary to 
                                        implement authorized 
                                        restoration activities; and
                                            ``(bb) approved by the 
                                        Federal agency through an 
                                        environmental analysis or 
                                        categorical exclusion decision;
                                    ``(IV) to complete new permanent 
                                road construction to replace and 
                                decommission an existing permanent road 
                                that is adversely impacting forest, 
                                rangeland, or watershed health; and
                                    ``(V) if there are funds remaining 
                                after carrying out subclauses (I) 
                                through (IV), to carry out authorized 
                                restoration services under other good 
                                neighbor agreements and for the 
                                administration of a good neighbor 
                                authority program by a Governor, Indian 
                                tribe, special district, or county.''; 
                                and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``2024'' 
                        and inserting ``2029'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, Indian 
                tribe, special district,'' after ``Governor''; and
                    (D) by striking paragraph (4).
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 8206(a) of the Agricultural Act 
of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 2113a(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting ``, Indian tribe, 
        special district,'' after ``Governor''; and
            (2) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``, Indian tribe, 
        special district,'' after ``Governor''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section apply to 
any project initiated pursuant to a good neighbor agreement (as defined 
in section 8206(a) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 
2113a(a)))--
            (1) before the date of enactment of this Act, if the 
        project was initiated after the date of enactment of the 
        Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-334; 132 
        Stat. 4490); or
            (2) on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 112. FIXING STEWARDSHIP END RESULT CONTRACTING.

    Section 604 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
U.S.C. 6591c) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, including retaining 
        and expanding existing forest products infrastructure'' before 
        the period at the end;
            (2) in subsection (d)(3)(B), by striking ``10 years'' and 
        inserting ``20 years''; and
            (3) in subsection (h), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Special rule for long-term stewardship contracts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A long-term agreement or 
                contract entered into with an entity under subsection 
                (b) by the Chief or the Director shall provide that in 
                the case of the cancellation or termination by the 
                Chief or the Director of such long-term agreement or 
                contract, the Chief or the Director, as applicable, 
                shall provide 10 percent of the agreement or contract 
                amount to such entity as cancellation or termination 
                costs.
                    ``(B) Definition of long-term agreement or 
                contract.--In this paragraph, the term `long-term 
                agreement or contract' means an agreement or contract 
                under subsection (b)--
                            ``(i) with a term of more than 5 years; and
                            ``(ii) entered into on or after the date of 
                        the enactment of this paragraph.''.

SEC. 113. INTRA-AGENCY STRIKE TEAMS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary concerned shall establish intra-
agency strike teams to assist the Secretary concerned with--
            (1) any reviews, including analysis under the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), 
        consultations under the National Historic Preservation Act of 
        1966 (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.), and consultations under the 
        Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), with 
        the intent to accelerate and streamline interagency 
        consultation processes;
            (2) the implementation of any necessary site preparation 
        work in advance of or as part of a fireshed management project;
            (3) the implementation of fireshed management projects 
        under such section; and
            (4) any combination of purposes under paragraphs (1) 
        through (3).
    (b) Members.--The Secretary concerned may appoint not more than 10 
individuals to serve on an intra-agency strike team comprised of--
            (1) employees of the Department under the jurisdiction of 
        the Secretary concerned;
            (2) employees of a different Federal agency, with the 
        consent of that agency's Secretary;
            (3) private contractors from any nonprofit organization, 
        State government, Indian Tribe, local government, quasi-
        governmental agency, academic institution, or private 
        organization; and
            (4) volunteers from any nonprofit organization, State 
        government, Indian Tribe, local government, quasi-governmental 
        agency, academic institution, or private organization.
    (c) Sunset.--The authority provided under this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 114. LOCALLY-LED RESTORATION.

    (a) Threshold Adjustment.--Section 14(d) of the National Forest 
Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a(d)) is amended by--
            (1) striking ``$10,000'' and inserting ``$55,000''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``Beginning on 
        January 1, 2025, and annually thereafter, the amount in the 
        first sentence of this subsection shall be adjusted by the 
        Secretary for changes in the Consumer Price Index of All Urban 
        Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
        Department of Labor.''.
    (b) Fireshed Management Projects.--Beginning on the date that is 30 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
solicit bids under section 14 of the National Forest Management Act of 
1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a(d)) for fireshed management projects under section 
106.

SEC. 115. JOINT CHIEFS LANDSCAPE RESTORATION PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.

    Section 40808 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (16 
U.S.C. 6592d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) to recover from wildfires; or
                    ``(E) to enhance soil, water, and related natural 
                resources.'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and post-
                wildfire impacts'' after ``wildfire risk''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ``, as 
                identified in the corresponding State forest action 
                plan or similar priority plan (such as a State wildlife 
                or water plan)'' before the semicolon;
            (3) in subsection (g)(2), by inserting ``and at least once 
        every 2 fiscal years thereafter'' after ``and 2023''; and
            (4) in subsection (h)(1), by striking ``and 2023'' and 
        inserting ``through 2028''.

SEC. 116. COLLABORATIVE FOREST LANDSCAPE RESTORATION PROGRAM.

    Section 4003 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (16 
U.S.C. 7303) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``species;'' 
                and inserting ``species or pathogens;'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) in subparagraph (H), by adding ``and'' after 
                the semicolon at the end; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) address standardized monitoring questions and 
                indicators;'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(3)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) in clause (ii), by adding ``and'' at the end; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) include a plan to provide support 
                        to collaborative processes established pursuant 
                        to subsection (b)(2);'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (E), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (F), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) proposals that seek to use innovative 
                implementation mechanisms, including good neighbor 
                agreements entered into under section 8206 of the 
                Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 2113a);
                    ``(H) proposals that seek to remove or treat 
                insects or diseases, including the removal of trees 
                killed by, or infested with, bark beetles in Arizona, 
                California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, 
                New Mexico, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and 
                Wyoming;
                    ``(I) proposals that seek to facilitate the sale of 
                firewood and Christmas trees on lands under the 
                jurisdiction of the Secretary or the Secretary of the 
                Interior;
                    ``(J) proposals that seek to reduce the risk of 
                uncharacteristic wildfire or increase ecological 
                restoration activities--
                            ``(i) within areas across land ownerships, 
                        including State, Tribal, and private land; and
                            ``(ii) within the wildland-urban interface 
                        (as defined in section 101 of the Healthy 
                        Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 
                        6511)); and
                    ``(K) proposals that seek to enhance watershed 
                health and drinking water sources.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as 
                        follows:
                    ``(A) 4 proposals in any 1 region of the National 
                Forest System to be funded during any fiscal year; 
                and'';
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                            (iii) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                        subparagraph (B); and
            (4) in subsection (f)(6), by striking ``2019 through 2023'' 
        and inserting ``2023 through 2029''.

SEC. 117. UTILIZING GRAZING FOR WILDFIRE RISK REDUCTION.

    The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the 
Forest Service, in coordination with holders of permits to graze 
livestock on Federal land, shall develop a strategy to increase 
opportunities to utilize livestock grazing as a wildfire risk reduction 
strategy, including--
            (1) completion of reviews (as required under the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (U.S.C. 4321 et seq.)) to 
        allow permitted grazing on vacant grazing allotments during 
        instances of drought, wildfire, or other natural disasters that 
        disrupt grazing on allotments already permitted;
            (2) use of targeted grazing;
            (3) increased use of temporary permits to promote targeted 
        fuels reduction and reduction of invasive annual grasses;
            (4) increased use of grazing as a postfire recovery and 
        restoration strategy, where appropriate; and
            (5) use of all applicable authorities under the law.

SEC. 118. PROGRAM TO SUPPORT PRIORITY REFORESTATION AND RESTORATION 
              PROJECTS OF DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in coordination with the 
heads of covered Federal agencies, shall establish a program to provide 
support for priority projects identified under subsection (c)(2), in 
accordance with this section.
    (b) Support.--In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the 
Secretary may provide support through--
            (1) cooperative agreements entered into in accordance with 
        processes established by the Secretary; and
            (2) contracts, including contracts established pursuant to 
        the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5301 et seq.).
    (c) Annual Identification of Priority Projects.--Not later than 1 
year after the date of enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, 
the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the heads of 
covered Federal agencies, shall--
            (1) identify lands of the United States administered by, or 
        under the jurisdiction of, the Secretary of the Interior that 
        require reforestation and restoration due to unplanned 
        disturbances and that are unlikely to experience natural 
        regeneration without assistance; and
            (2) establish a list of priority projects for reforestation 
        and restoration for the upcoming year, which may include 
        activities to ensure adequate and appropriate seed and seedling 
        availability to further the objectives of other priority 
        projects.
    (d) Consultation.--In carrying out the program under subsection (a) 
and the requirements under subsection (c), the Secretary shall consult 
or collaborate with, as appropriate, and inform the following:
            (1) State and local governments.
            (2) Indian Tribes.
            (3) Covered institutions of higher education.
            (4) Federal agencies that administer lands of the United 
        States that adjoin or are proximal to lands that are the 
        subject of priority projects and potential priority projects.
            (5) Other stakeholders, as determined by the Secretary.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall submit to the relevant Congressional Committees a report 
that includes the following:
            (1) An accounting of all lands identified under subsection 
        (c)(1) for the period covered by the report.
            (2) A list of priority projects identified under subsection 
        (c)(2) for the period covered by the report and, with respect 
        to each such priority project, any support issued under the 
        program under subsection (a) and any progress made towards 
        reforestation and restoration.
            (3) An accounting of each contract and cooperative 
        agreement established under the program under subsection (a).
            (4) A description of the actions taken in accordance with 
        subsection (d).
            (5) Assessments with respect to--
                    (A) gaps in--
                            (i) the implementation of the program under 
                        subsection (a); and
                            (ii) the progress made under the program 
                        with respect to priority projects; and
                    (B) opportunities to procure funding necessary to 
                address any such gaps.
    (f) Nonduplication.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary of 
the Interior shall collaborate with the Secretary of Agriculture and 
the Secretary of Defense to ensure the nonduplication of activities 
carried out under section 205.
    (g) Sunset.--The authority provided under this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered federal agency.--The term ``covered Federal 
        agency'' means the National Park Service, the United States 
        Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the 
        Bureau of Reclamation, or the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
            (2) Covered institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``covered institution of higher education'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``eligible institutions'' in section 301(e)(3)).
            (3) Natural regeneration; reforestation.--The terms 
        ``natural regeneration'' and ``reforestation'' have the 
        meanings given such terms in section 3(e)(4)(A) of the Forest 
        and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 
        U.S.C. 1601(3)(4)(A))
            (4) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means activities 
        that facilitate the recovery of an ecosystem that has been 
        degraded, damaged, or destroyed, including the reestablishment 
        of appropriate plant species composition and community 
        structure.
            (5) Unplanned ecosystem disturbance.--The term ``unplanned 
        ecosystem disturbance'' means any unplanned disturbance that 
        disrupts the structure or composition of an ecosystem, 
        including a wildfire, an infestation of insects or disease, and 
        a weather event.

                     Subtitle C--Litigation Reform

SEC. 121. COMMONSENSE LITIGATION REFORM.

    (a) In General.--A court shall not enjoin a covered agency action 
if the court determines that the plaintiff is unable to demonstrate 
that the claim of the plaintiff is likely to succeed on the merits.
    (b) Balancing Short-and Long-term Effects of Covered Agency Action 
in Considering Injunctive Relief.--As part of its weighing the equities 
while considering any request for an injunction that applies to a 
covered agency action, the court reviewing such action shall balance 
the impact to the ecosystem likely affected by such action of--
            (1) the short- and long-term effects of undertaking such 
        action; against
            (2) the short- and long-term effects of not undertaking 
        such action.
    (c) Limitations on Judicial Review.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (except this section), in the case of a claim arising under 
        Federal law seeking judicial review of a covered agency 
        action--
                    (A) a court shall not hold unlawful, set aside, or 
                otherwise limit, delay, stay, vacate, or enjoin such 
                agency action unless the court determines that--
                            (i) such action poses or will pose a risk 
                        of a proximate and substantial environmental 
                        harm; and
                            (ii) there is no other equitable remedy 
                        available as a matter of law; and
                    (B) if a court determines that subparagraph (A) 
                does not apply to the covered agency action the only 
                remedy the court may order with regard to such agency 
                action is to remand the matter to the agency with 
                instructions to, during the 180-day period beginning on 
                the date of the order, take such additional actions as 
                may be necessary to redress any legal wrong suffered 
                by, or adverse effect on, the plaintiff, except such 
                additional actions may not include the preparation of a 
                new agency document unless the court finds the agency 
                was required and failed to prepare such agency 
                document.
            (2) Effect of remand.--In the case of a covered agency 
        action to which paragraph (1)(B) applies, the agency may--
                    (A) continue to carry out such agency action to the 
                extent the action does not impact the additional 
                actions required pursuant to such paragraph; and
                    (B) if the agency action relates to an agency 
                document, use any format to correct such document 
                (including a supplemental environmental document, 
                memorandum, or errata sheet).
    (d) Limitations on Claims.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law (except this section), a claim arising under Federal law seeking 
judicial review of a covered agency action shall be barred unless--
            (1) with respect to an agency document or the application 
        of a categorical exclusion noticed in the Federal Register, 
        such claim is filed not later than 120 days after the date of 
        publication of a notice in the Federal Register of agency 
        intent to carry out the fireshed management project relating to 
        such agency document or application, unless a shorter period is 
        specified in such Federal law;
            (2) in the case of an agency document or the application of 
        a categorical exclusion not described in paragraph (1), such 
        claim is filed not later than 120 days after the date that is 
        the earlier of--
                    (A) the date on which such agency document or 
                application is published; and
                    (B) the date on which such agency document or 
                application is noticed; and
            (3) in the case of a covered agency action for which there 
        was a public comment period, such claim--
                    (A) is filed by a party that--
                            (i) participated in the administrative 
                        proceedings regarding the fireshed management 
                        project relating to such action; and
                            (ii) submitted a comment during such public 
                        comment period and such comment was 
                        sufficiently detailed to put the applicable 
                        agency on notice of the issue upon which the 
                        party seeks judicial review; and
                    (B) is related to such comment.
    (e) Definitions.--ln this section:
            (1) Agency document.--The term ``agency document'' means, 
        with respect to a fireshed management project, a record of 
        decision, environmental document, or programmatic environmental 
        document.
            (2) Covered agency action.--The term ``covered agency 
        action'' means--
                    (A) the establishment of a fireshed management 
                project by an agency;
                    (B) the application of a categorical exclusion to a 
                fireshed management project;
                    (C) the preparation of any agency document for a 
                fireshed management project; or
                    (D) any other agency action as part of a fireshed 
                management project.
            (3) NEPA terms.--The terms ``categorical exclusion'', 
        ``environmental document'', and ``programmatic environmental 
        document'' have the meanings given such terms, respectively, in 
        section 111 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
        (42 U.S.C. 4336e).

SEC. 122. CONSULTATION ON FOREST PLANS.

    (a) Forest Service Plans.--Section 6(d)(2) of the Forest and 
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
1604(d)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) No additional consultation required under certain 
        circumstances.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
        Secretary shall not be required to reinitiate consultation 
        under section 7(a)(2) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
        U.S.C. 1536(a)(2)) or section 402.16 of title 50, Code of 
        Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation), on a land 
        management plan approved, amended, or revised under this 
        section when--
                    ``(A) a new species is listed or critical habitat 
                is designated under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
                (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); or
                    ``(B) new information reveals effects of the land 
                management plan that may affect a species listed or 
                critical habitat designated under that Act in a manner 
                or to an extent not previously considered.''.
    (b) Bureau of Land Management Plans.--Section 202 of the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) No Additional Consultation Required Under Certain 
Circumstances.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary shall not be required to reinitiate consultation under 
section 7(a)(2) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1536(a)(2)) or section 402.16 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations 
(or a successor regulation), on a land use plan approved, amended, or 
revised under this section when--
            ``(1) a new species is listed or critical habitat is 
        designated under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1531 et seq.); or
            ``(2) new information reveals effects of the land use plan 
        that may affect a species listed or critical habitat designated 
        under that Act in a manner or to an extent not previously 
        considered.''.

    TITLE II--PROTECTING COMMUNITIES IN THE WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE

SEC. 201. COMMUNITY WILDFIRE RISK REDUCTION PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall jointly establish an 
interagency program to be known as the ``Community Wildfire Risk 
Reduction Program'' that shall consist of at least one representative 
from each of the following:
            (1) The Office of Wildland Fire of the Department of the 
        Interior.
            (2) The National Park Service.
            (3) The Bureau of Land Management.
            (4) The United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
            (5) The Bureau of Indian Affairs.
            (6) The Forest Service.
            (7) The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
            (8) The United States Fire Administration.
            (9) The National Institute of Standards and Technology.
            (10) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the program established under 
subsection (a) is to support interagency coordination in reducing the 
risk of, and the damages resulting from, wildfires in communities 
(including tribal communities) in the wildland-urban interface 
through--
            (1) advancing research and science in wildfire resilience 
        and land management, including support for non-Federal research 
        partnerships;
            (2) supporting adoption by Indian Tribes and local 
        governmental entities of fire-resistant building methods, 
        codes, and standards;
            (3) supporting efforts by Indian Tribes or local 
        governmental entities to address the effects of wildland fire 
        on such communities, including property damages, air quality, 
        and water quality;
            (4) encouraging public-private partnerships to conduct 
        hazardous fuels management activities in the wildland-urban 
        interface;
            (5) providing technical and financial assistance targeted 
        towards communities, including tribal communities, through 
        streamlined and unified technical assistance and grant 
        management mechanisms, including the portal and grant 
        application established under subsection (c), to--
                    (A) encourage critical risk reduction measures on 
                private property with high wildfire risk exposure in 
                such communities; and
                    (B) mitigate costs for and improve capacity among 
                such communities.
    (c) Portal and Uniform Grant Application.--
            (1) In general.--As part of the program established under 
        subsection (a), the Secretaries and the Administrator of the 
        Federal Emergency Management Agency shall establish a portal 
        through which a person may submit a single, uniform application 
        for any of the following:
                    (A) A community wildfire defense grant under 
                section 40803(f) of the Infrastructure Investment and 
                Jobs Act (16 U.S.C. 6592(f)).
                    (B) An emergency management performance grant under 
                section 662 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management 
                Reform Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 761).
                    (C) A grant under section 33 of the Federal Fire 
                Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2229).
                    (D) A grant under section 34 of the Federal Fire 
                Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2229a).
                    (E) Financial or technical assistance or a grant 
                under sections 203, 205, 404, 406, or 420 of the Robert 
                T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 5133, 5135, 5170c, 5172, 5187).
            (2) Simplification of application.--In establishing the 
        portal and application under paragraph (1), the Secretaries and 
        the Administrator shall seek to reduce the complexity and 
        length of the application process for the grants described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Technical assistance.--The Secretaries shall provide 
        technical assistance to communities or persons seeking to apply 
        for financial assistance through the portal using the 
        application established under paragraph (1).
    (d) Sunset.--The program established under this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 202. COMMUNITY WILDFIRE DEFENSE RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries shall, acting jointly, expand the 
Joint Fire Science Program to include a performance-driven research and 
development program known as the ``Community Wildfire Defense Research 
Program'' for the purpose of testing and advancing innovative designs 
to create or improve the wildfire-resistance of structures and 
communities.
    (b) Program Priorities.--In carrying out the program established 
under subsection (a), the Secretaries shall evaluate opportunities to 
create wildfire-resistant structures and communities through--
            (1) different affordable building materials, including mass 
        timber;
            (2) home hardening, including policies to incentivize and 
        incorporate defensible space;
            (3) subdivision design and other land use planning and 
        design;
            (4) landscape architecture; and
            (5) other wildfire-resistant designs, as determined by the 
        Secretary.
    (c) Community Wildfire Defense Innovation Prize.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the program established 
        under subsection (a), the Secretaries shall carry out a 
        competition through which a person may submit to the 
        Secretaries innovative designs for the creation or improvement 
        of an ignition-resistant structure or fire-adapted communities.
            (2) Prize.--Subject to the availability of appropriations 
        made in advance for such purpose, the Secretaries may award a 
        prize under the competition described in paragraph (1), based 
        on criteria established by the Secretaries and in accordance 
        with paragraph (3).
            (3) Scale.--In awarding a prize under paragraph (2), the 
        Secretaries shall prioritize for an award designs with the most 
        potential to scale to existing infrastructure.
    (d) Collaboration and Nonduplication.--In carrying out the program 
established under subsection (a), the Secretaries shall ensure 
collaboration and nonduplication of activities with the Building 
Technologies Office of the Department of Energy.
    (e) Sunset.--The program established under subsection (a) shall 
terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 203. VEGETATION MANAGEMENT, FACILITY INSPECTION, AND OPERATION AND 
              MAINTENANCE RELATING TO ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND 
              DISTRIBUTION FACILITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    (a) Hazard Trees Within 150 Feet of Electric Power Line.--Section 
512(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1772(a)(1)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking ``10'' and 
inserting ``150''.
    (b) Consultation With Private Landowners.--Section 512(c)(3)(E) of 
such Act (43 U.S.C. 1772(c)(3)(E)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) consulting with a private landowner 
                        with respect to any hazard trees identified for 
                        removal from land owned by the private 
                        landowner.''.
    (c) Review and Approval Process.--Section 512(c)(4)(A)(iv) of such 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1772(c)(4)(A)(iv)) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(iv) ensures that--
                                    ``(I) a plan submitted without a 
                                modification under clause (iii) shall 
                                be automatically approved 120 days 
                                after being submitted; and
                                    ``(II) with respect to a plan 
                                submitted with a modification under 
                                clause (iii), if not approved within 
                                120 days after being submitted, the 
                                Secretary concerned shall develop and 
                                submit a letter to the owner and 
                                operator describing--
                                            ``(aa) a detailed timeline 
                                        (to conclude within 165 days 
                                        after the submission of the 
                                        plan) for completing review of 
                                        the plan;
                                            ``(bb) any identified 
                                        deficiencies with the plan and 
                                        specific opportunities for the 
                                        owner and operator to address 
                                        such deficiencies; and
                                            ``(cc) any other relevant 
                                        information, as determined by 
                                        the Secretary concerned.''.

SEC. 204. CATEGORICAL EXCLUSION FOR ELECTRIC UTILITY LINES RIGHTS-OF-
              WAY.

    (a) Categorical Exclusion Established.--Forest management 
activities described in subsection (b) are a category of activities 
hereby designated as being categorically excluded from the preparation 
of an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement 
under section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4332).
    (b) Forest Management Activities Designated for Categorical 
Exclusion.--The forest management activities designated under 
subsection (a) for a categorical exclusion are--
            (1) the development and approval of a vegetation 
        management, facility inspection, and operation and maintenance 
        plan submitted under section 512(c)(1) of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1772(c)(1)) by the 
        Secretary concerned; and
            (2) the implementation of routine activities conducted 
        under the plan referred to in paragraph (1).
    (c) Availability of Categorical Exclusion.--On and after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned may use the 
categorical exclusion established under subsection (a) in accordance 
with this section.
    (d) Exclusion of Certain Areas From Categorical Exclusion.--The 
categorical exclusion established under subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any forest management activity conducted--
            (1) in a component of the National Wilderness Preservation 
        System; or
            (2) on National Forest System lands on which the removal of 
        vegetation is restricted or prohibited by an Act of Congress.
    (e) Permanent Roads.--
            (1) Prohibition on establishment.--A forest management 
        activity designated under subsection (b) shall not include the 
        establishment of a permanent road.
            (2) Existing roads.--The Secretary concerned may carry out 
        necessary maintenance and repair on an existing permanent road 
        for the purposes of conducting a forest management activity 
        designated under subsection (b).
            (3) Temporary roads.--The Secretary concerned shall 
        decommission any temporary road constructed for carrying out a 
        forest management activity designated under subsection (b) not 
        later than the date that is 3 years after the date on which the 
        forest management activity is completed.
    (f) Applicable Laws.--Clauses (iii) and (iv) of section 106(a)(3) 
shall apply to forest management activities designated under subsection 
(b).

SEC. 205. SEEDS OF SUCCESS.

    (a) Strategy Established.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretaries and the Secretary of Defense 
shall jointly develop and implement a strategy, to be known as the 
``Seeds of Success strategy'', to enhance the domestic supply chain of 
seeds.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall 
include a plan for each of the following:
            (1) Facilitating sustained interagency coordination in, and 
        a comprehensive approach to, native plant materials development 
        and restoration.
            (2) Promoting the re-seeding of native or fire-resistant 
        vegetation post-wildfire, particularly in the wildland-urban 
        interface.
            (3) Creating and consolidating information on native or 
        fire-resistant vegetation and sharing such information with 
        State governments, Indian Tribes, and local governments.
            (4) Building regional programs and partnerships to promote 
        the development of materials made from plants native to the 
        United States and restore such plants to their respective, 
        native habitats within the United States, giving priority to 
        the building of such programs and partnerships in regions of 
        the Bureau of Land Management where such partnerships and 
        programs do not already exist as of the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
            (5) Expanding seed storage and seed-cleaning 
        infrastructure.
            (6) Expanding the Warehouse System of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, particularly the cold storage capacity of the 
        Warehouse System.
            (7) Shortening the timeline for the approval of permits to 
        collect seeds on public lands managed by the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (c) Report.--The Secretaries and the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the relevant Congressional Committees the strategy developed 
under paragraph (1).

                 TITLE III--TRANSPARENCY AND TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 301. BIOCHAR INNOVATIONS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR CONSERVATION, 
              HEALTH, AND ADVANCEMENTS IN RESEARCH.

    (a) Demonstration Projects.--
            (1) Establishment.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations made in advance for such purpose, not 
                later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this 
                Act, the covered Secretaries shall establish a program 
                to enter into partnerships with eligible entities to 
                carry out demonstration projects to support the 
                development and commercialization of biochar in 
                accordance with this subsection.
                    (B) Location of demonstration projects.--In 
                carrying out the program established under subparagraph 
                (A), the covered Secretaries shall, to the maximum 
                extent practicable, enter into partnerships with 
                eligible entities such that not fewer than one 
                demonstration project is carried out in each region of 
                the Forest Service and each region of the Bureau of 
                Land Management.
            (2) Proposals.--To be eligible to enter into a partnership 
        to carry out a biochar demonstration project under paragraph 
        (1)(A), an eligible entity shall submit to the covered 
        Secretaries a proposal at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the covered Secretaries may 
        require.
            (3) Priority.--In selecting proposals under paragraph (2), 
        the covered Secretaries shall give priority to entering into 
        partnerships with eligible entities that submit proposals to 
        carry out biochar demonstration projects that--
                    (A) have the most carbon sequestration potential;
                    (B) have the most potential to create new jobs and 
                contribute to local economies, particularly in rural 
                areas;
                    (C) have the most potential to demonstrate--
                            (i) new and innovative uses of biochar;
                            (ii) market viability for cost effective 
                        biochar-based products;
                            (iii) the ecosystem services created or 
                        supported by the use of biochar;
                            (iv) the restorative benefits of biochar 
                        with respect to forest heath and resiliency, 
                        including forest soils and watersheds; or
                            (v) any combination of purposes specified 
                        in clauses (i) through (iv); and
                    (D) are located in areas that have a high need for 
                biochar production, as determined by the covered 
                Secretaries, due to--
                            (i) nearby lands identified as having high 
                        or very high or extreme risk of wildfire;
                            (ii) availability of sufficient quantities 
                        of feedstocks;
                            (iii) a high level of demand for biochar or 
                        other commercial byproducts of biochar; or
                            (iv) any combination of purposes specified 
                        in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
            (4) Use of funds.--In carrying out the program established 
        under paragraph (1)(A), the covered Secretaries may enter into 
        partnerships and provide funding to such partnerships to carry 
        out demonstration projects to--
                    (A) acquire and test various feedstocks and their 
                efficacy;
                    (B) develop and optimize commercially and 
                technologically viable biochar production units, 
                including mobile and permanent units;
                    (C) demonstrate--
                            (i) the production of biochar from forest 
                        residue; and
                            (ii) the use of biochar to restore forest 
                        health and resiliency;
                    (D) build, expand, or establish biochar facilities;
                    (E) conduct research on new and innovative uses of 
                biochar;
                    (F) demonstrate cost-effective market opportunities 
                for biochar and biochar-based products;
                    (G) carry out any other activities the covered 
                Secretaries determine appropriate; or
                    (H) any combination of the purposes specified in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (F).
            (5) Feedstock requirements.--To the maximum extent 
        practicable, an eligible entity that carries out a biochar 
        demonstration project under this subsection shall, with respect 
        to the feedstock used under such project, derive at least 50 
        percent of such feedstock from forest thinning and management 
        activities, including mill residues, conducted on National 
        Forest System lands or public lands.
            (6) Review of biochar demonstration.--
                    (A) In general.--The covered Secretaries shall 
                conduct regionally-specific research, including 
                economic analyses and life-cycle assessments, on any 
                biochar produced from a demonstration project carried 
                out under the program established in paragraph (1)(A), 
                including--
                            (i) the effects of such biochar on--
                                    (I) forest health and resiliency;
                                    (II) carbon capture and 
                                sequestration, including increasing 
                                soil carbon in the short-term and long-
                                term;
                                    (III) productivity, reduced input 
                                costs, and water retention in 
                                agricultural practices;
                                    (IV) the health of soil and 
                                grasslands used for grazing activities, 
                                including grazing activities on 
                                National Forest System land and public 
                                land;
                                    (V) environmental remediation 
                                activities, including abandoned mine 
                                land remediation; and
                                    (VI) other ecosystem services 
                                created or supported by the use of 
                                biochar;
                            (ii) the effectiveness of biochar as a co-
                        product of biofuels or in biochemicals; and
                            (iii) the effectiveness of other potential 
                        uses of biochar to determine if any such use is 
                        technologically and commercially viable.
                    (B) Coordination.--The covered Secretaries shall, 
                to the maximum extent practicable, provide data, 
                analyses, and other relevant information collected 
                under subparagraph (A) with recipients of a grant under 
                subsection (b).
            (7) Limitation on funding for establishing biochar 
        facilities.--If the covered Secretaries provide to an eligible 
        entity that enters into a partnership with the covered 
        Secretaries under paragraph (1)(A) funding for establishing a 
        biochar facility, such funding may not exceed 35 percent of the 
        total capital cost of establishing such biochar facility.
    (b) Biochar Research and Development Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall establish or 
        expand an existing applied biochar research and development 
        grant program to make competitive grants to eligible 
        institutions to carry out the activities described in paragraph 
        (3).
            (2) Applications.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this subsection, an eligible institution shall submit to the 
        Secretary a proposal at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require.
            (3) Use of funds.--An eligible institution that receives a 
        grant under this subsection shall use the grant funds to 
        conduct applied research on--
                    (A) the effect of biochar on forest health and 
                resiliency, accounting for variations in biochar, soil, 
                climate, and other factors;
                    (B) the effect of biochar on soil health and water 
                retention, accounting for variations in biochar, soil, 
                climate, and other factors;
                    (C) the long-term carbon sequestration potential of 
                biochar;
                    (D) the best management practices with respect to 
                biochar and biochar-based products that maximize--
                            (i) carbon sequestration benefits; and
                            (ii) the commercial viability and 
                        application of such products in forestry, 
                        agriculture, environmental remediation, water 
                        quality improvement, and any other similar 
                        uses, as determined by the Secretary;
                    (E) the regional uses of biochar to increase 
                productivity and profitability, including--
                            (i) uses in agriculture and environmental 
                        remediation; and
                            (ii) use as a co-product in fuel 
                        production;
                    (F) new and innovative uses for biochar byproducts; 
                and
                    (G) opportunities to expand markets for biochar and 
                create related jobs, particularly in rural areas.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Report to congress.--Not later than 2 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the covered Secretaries shall 
        submit to Congress a report that--
                    (A) includes policy and program recommendations to 
                improve the widespread use of biochar;
                    (B) identifies any area of research needed to 
                advance biochar commercialization; and
                    (C) identifies barriers to further biochar 
                commercialization, including permitting and siting 
                considerations.
            (2) Materials submitted in support of the president's 
        budget.--Beginning with the second fiscal year that begins 
        after the date of enactment of this Act and annually thereafter 
        until the date described in subsection (d), the covered 
        Secretaries shall include in the materials submitted to 
        Congress in support of the President's budget pursuant to 
        section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, a report 
        describing, for the fiscal year covered by the report, the 
        status of each demonstration project carried out under 
        subsection (a) and each research and development grant carried 
        out under subsection (b).
    (d) Sunset.--The authority to carry out this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Biochar.--The term ``biochar'' means carbonized biomass 
        produced by converting feedstock through reductive thermal 
        processing for non-fuel uses.
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State, local, special district, or Tribal 
                government;
                    (B) an eligible institution;
                    (C) a private, non-private, or cooperative entity 
                or organization;
                    (D) a National Laboratory (as such term is defined 
                in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
                U.S.C. 15801)); or
                    (E) a partnership or consortium of two or more 
                entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
            (3) Eligible institution.--The term ``eligible 
        institution'' means land-grant colleges and universities, 
        including institutions eligible for funding under the--
                    (A) Act of July 2, 1862 (12 Stat. 503, chapter 130; 
                7 U.S.C. 301 et seq.);
                    (B) Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417, chapter 
                841; 7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.), including Tuskegee 
                University;
                    (C) Public Law 87-788 (commonly known as the 
                ``McIntire-Stennis Act of 1962''); or
                    (D) Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 
                1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note; Public Law 103-382).
            (4) Feedstock.--The term ``feedstock'' means excess biomass 
        in the form of plant matter or materials that serves as the raw 
        material for the production of biochar.
            (5) Covered secretaries.--The term ``covered Secretaries'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
                the Chief of the Forest Service;
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
                the Director of the Bureau of Land Management; and
                    (C) the Secretary of Energy, acting through the 
                Director of the Office of Science.

SEC. 302. ACCURATE HAZARDOUS FUELS REDUCTION REPORTS.

    (a) Inclusion of Hazardous Fuels Reduction Report in Materials 
Submitted in Support of the President's Budget.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning with the first fiscal year that 
        begins after the date of enactment of this Act, and each fiscal 
        year thereafter, the Secretary concerned shall include in the 
        materials submitted to Congress in support of the President's 
        budget pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States 
        Code, a report on the number of acres of Federal land on which 
        the Secretary concerned carried out hazardous fuels reduction 
        activities during the preceding fiscal year.
            (2) Requirements.--For purposes of the report required 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall--
                    (A) in determining the number of acres of Federal 
                land on which the Secretary concerned carried out 
                hazardous fuels reduction activities during the period 
                covered by the report--
                            (i) record acres of Federal land on which 
                        hazardous fuels reduction activities were 
                        completed during such period; and
                            (ii) record each acre described in clause 
                        (i) once in the report, regardless of whether 
                        multiple hazardous fuels reduction activities 
                        were carried out on such acre during such 
                        period; and
                    (B) with respect to the acres of Federal land 
                recorded in the report, include information on--
                            (i) which such acres are located in the 
                        wildland-urban interface;
                            (ii) the level of wildfire risk (high, 
                        moderate, or low) on the first and last day of 
                        the period covered by the report;
                            (iii) the types of hazardous fuels 
                        activities completed for such acres, 
                        delineating between whether such activities 
                        were conducted--
                                    (I) in a wildfire managed for 
                                resource benefits; or
                                    (II) through a planned project;
                            (iv) the cost per acre of hazardous fuels 
                        activities carried out during the period 
                        covered by the report;
                            (v) the region or system unit in which the 
                        acres are located; and
                            (vi) the effectiveness of the hazardous 
                        fuels reduction activities on reducing the risk 
                        of wildfire.
            (3) Transparency.--The Secretary concerned shall make each 
        report submitted under paragraph (1) publicly available on the 
        websites of the Department of Agriculture and the Department of 
        the Interior, as applicable.
    (b) Accurate Data Collection.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall implement 
        standardized procedures for tracking data related to hazardous 
        fuels reduction activities carried out by the Secretary 
        concerned.
            (2) Elements.--The standardized procedures required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) regular, standardized data reviews of the 
                accuracy and timely input of data used to track 
                hazardous fuels reduction activities;
                    (B) verification methods that validate whether such 
                data accurately correlates to the hazardous fuels 
                reduction activities carried out by the Secretary 
                concerned;
                    (C) an analysis of the short- and long-term 
                effectiveness of the hazardous fuels reduction 
                activities on reducing the risk of wildfire; and
                    (D) for hazardous fuels reduction activities that 
                occur partially within the wildland-urban interface, 
                methods to distinguish which acres are located within 
                the wildland-urban interface and which acres are 
                located outside the wildland-urban interface.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 2 weeks after implementing the 
        standardized procedures required under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary concerned shall submit to Congress a report that 
        describes--
                    (A) such standardized procedures; and
                    (B) program and policy recommendations to Congress 
                to address any limitations in tracking data related to 
                hazardous fuels reduction activities under this 
                subsection.
    (c) GAO Study.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall--
            (1) conduct a study on the implementation of this section, 
        including any limitations with respect to--
                    (A) reporting hazardous fuels reduction activities 
                under subsection (a); or
                    (B) tracking data related to hazardous fuels 
                reduction activities under subsection (b); and
            (2) submit to Congress a report that describes the results 
        of the study under paragraph (1).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Hazardous fuels reduction activity.--The term 
        ``hazardous fuels reduction activity''--
                    (A) means any vegetation management activity to 
                reduce the risk of wildfire, including mechanical 
                treatments, grazing, and prescribed burning; and
                    (B) does not include the awarding of contracts to 
                conduct hazardous fuels reduction activities.
            (2) Federal lands.--The term ``Federal lands'' means lands 
        under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior or the 
        Secretary of Agriculture.
    (e) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds are 
authorized to carry out the requirements of this section, and the 
activities authorized by this section are subject to the availability 
of appropriations made in advance for such purposes.

SEC. 303. PUBLIC-PRIVATE WILDFIRE TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT AND 
              DEMONSTRATION PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means--
                    (A) each Federal land management agency (as such 
                term is defined in the Federal Lands Recreation 
                Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801));
                    (B) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration;
                    (C) the United States Fire Administration;
                    (D) the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
                    (E) the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration;
                    (F) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
                    (G) the Department of Defense;
                    (H) a State, Tribal, county, or municipal fire 
                department or district operating through the United 
                States Fire Administration or pursuant to an agreement 
                with a Federal agency; and
                    (I) any other Federal agency involved in wildfire 
                response.
            (2) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means--
                    (A) a private entity;
                    (B) a nonprofit organization; or
                    (C) an institution of higher education (as defined 
                in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 1001)).
    (b) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretaries, in coordination with the heads of the 
covered agencies, shall establish a deployment and demonstration pilot 
program (in this section referred to as ``Pilot Program'') for new and 
innovative wildfire prevention, detection, communication, and 
mitigation technologies.
    (c) Functions.--In carrying out the Pilot Program, the Secretaries 
shall--
            (1) incorporate the Pilot Program into the National 
        Wildfire Coordinating Group;
            (2) in consultation with the heads of covered agencies, 
        identify and advance the demonstration and deployment of key 
        technology priority areas with respect to wildfire prevention, 
        detection, communication, and mitigation technologies, 
        including--
                    (A) hazardous fuels reduction treatments or 
                activities;
                    (B) dispatch communications;
                    (C) remote sensing, detection, and tracking;
                    (D) safety equipment;
                    (E) common operating pictures or operational 
                dashboards; and
                    (F) interoperable commercial data; and
            (3) connect each covered entity selected to participate in 
        the Pilot Program with the appropriate covered agency to 
        coordinate real-time and on-the-ground testing of technology 
        during wildland fire mitigation activities and training.
    (d) Applications.--To be eligible to be selected to participate in 
the Pilot Program, a covered entity shall submit to the Secretaries an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as the Secretaries may require, including a proposal to 
demonstrate technologies specific to the key technology priority areas 
identified pursuant to subsection (c)(2).
    (e) Prioritization of Emerging Technologies.--In selecting covered 
entities to participate in the Pilot Program, the Secretaries shall 
give priority to covered entities--
            (1) that have participated in the Fire Weather Testbed of 
        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; or
            (2) developing and applying emerging technologies for 
        wildfire mitigation, including artificial intelligence, quantum 
        sensing, computing and quantum-hybrid applications, thermal 
        mid-wave infrared equipped low earth orbit satellites, 
        augmented reality, 5G private networks, and device-to-device 
        communications supporting nomadic mesh networks and detection.
    (f) Outreach.--The Secretaries, in coordination with the heads of 
covered agencies, shall make public the key technology priority areas 
identified pursuant to subsection (c)(2) and invite covered entities to 
apply under subsection (d) to deploy and demonstrate their technologies 
to address such priority areas.
    (g) Reports and Recommendations.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for the duration 
of the Pilot Program, the Secretaries shall submit to the relevant 
Congressional Committees, the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that 
includes, with respect to the Pilot Program, the following:
            (1) A list of participating covered entities.
            (2) A brief description of the technologies deployed and 
        demonstrated by each such covered entity.
            (3) An estimate of the cost of acquiring each such 
        technology and applying the technology at scale.
            (4) Outreach efforts by Federal agencies to covered 
        entities developing wildfire technologies.
            (5) Assessments of, and recommendations relating to, new 
        technologies with potential adoption and application at-scale 
        in Federal land management agencies' wildfire prevention, 
        detection, communication, and mitigation efforts.
            (6) A description of the relationship and coordination 
        between the Pilot Program and the activities of the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including the Fire 
        Weather Testbed.
    (h) Sunset.--The authority to carry out this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 304. GAO STUDY ON FOREST SERVICE POLICIES.

    Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall--
            (1) conduct a study evaluating--
                    (A) the effectiveness of Forest Service wildland 
                firefighting operations;
                    (B) transparency and accountability measures in the 
                Forest Service's budget and accounting process; and
                    (C) the suitability and feasibility of establishing 
                a new Federal agency with the responsibility of 
                responding and suppressing wildland fires on Federal 
                lands; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report that describes the results 
        of the study required under paragraph (1).

SEC. 305. FOREST SERVICE WESTERN HEADQUARTERS STUDY.

    Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Chief of the Forest Service shall--
            (1) conduct a study evaluating--
                    (A) potential locations for a Western headquarters 
                for the Forest Service, including potential locations 
                in at least 3 different States located west of the 
                Mississippi river; and
                    (B) the potential benefits of creating a Western 
                headquarters for the Forest Service, including 
                expected--
                            (i) improvements to customer service;
                            (ii) improvements to employee recruitment 
                        and retention; and
                            (iii) operational efficiencies and cost 
                        savings; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report that describes the results 
        of the study required under paragraph (1).

SEC. 306. KEEPING FOREST PLANS CURRENT AND MONITORED.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary--
            (1) to the greatest extent practicable and subject to the 
        availability of appropriations made in advance for such 
        purpose--
                    (A) ensure forest plans comply with the 
                requirements of section 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and 
                Rangeland Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
                1604(f)(5)(A)); and
                    (B) prioritize revising any forest plan not in 
                compliance with such section 6(f)(5)(A);
            (2) not be considered to be in violation of section 
        6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
        Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) solely because 
        more than 15 years have passed without revision of the plan for 
        a unit of the National Forest System;
            (3) not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the relevant Congressional Committees 
        the date on which each forest plan required by such section 6 
        was most recently revised, amended, or modified;
            (4) seek to publish a new, complete version of a forest 
        plan that the Secretary has been directed to amend, revise, or 
        modify by a court order within 60 days of such amendment, 
        revision, or modification, subject to the availability of 
        appropriations made in advance for such purpose; and
            (5) maintain a central, publicly accessible website with 
        links to--
                    (A) the most recently available forest plan 
                adopted, amended, or modified by a court order as a 
                single document; and
                    (B) the most recently published forest plan 
                monitoring report for each unit of the National Forest 
                System.
    (b) Good Faith Updates.--If the Secretary is not acting 
expeditiously and in good faith, within the funding available to 
revise, amend, or modify a plan for a unit of the National Forest 
System as required by law or a court order, subsection (a) shall be 
void with respect to such plan and a court of proper jurisdiction may 
order completion of the plan on an accelerated basis.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the relevant 
Congressional Committees summarizing the implementation of this 
section.

SEC. 307. CONTAINER AERIAL FIREFIGHTING SYSTEM (CAFFS).

    (a) Evaluation.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
of the Interior, in consultation with the National Interagency Aviation 
Committee and the Interagency Airtanker Board, shall jointly conduct an 
evaluation of the container aerial firefighting system to assess the 
use of such system to mitigate and suppress wildfires.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
of the Interior, in consultation with the National Interagency Aviation 
Committee and the Interagency Airtanker Board, shall jointly submit to 
the appropriate committees a report that includes the results of the 
evaluation required under subsection (a).
    (c) Appropriate Committees Defined.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees'' means--
            (1) the Committees on Agriculture and Natural Resources of 
        the House of Representatives; and
            (2) the Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
        and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.

SEC. 308. STUDY ON PINE BEETLE INFESTATION.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest 
Service, shall--
            (1) carry out a study on the causes and effects of, and 
        solutions for, the infestation of pine beetles in the North 
        Eastern region of the United States; and
            (2) submit to the relevant Congressional Committees a 
        report that includes the results of the study required under 
        paragraph (1).

      TITLE IV--ENSURING CASUALTY ASSISTANCE FOR OUR FIREFIGHTERS

SEC. 401. WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT CASUALTY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Development of Program.--Not later than 6 months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
develop a Wildland Fire Management Casualty Assistance Program 
(referred to in this section as the ``Program'') to provide assistance 
to the next-of-kin of--
            (1) firefighters who, while in the line of duty, suffer 
        illness or are critically injured or killed; and
            (2) wildland fire support personnel critically injured or 
        killed in the line of duty.
    (b) Aspects of Program.--The Program shall address the following:
            (1) The initial and any subsequent notifications to the 
        next-of-kin of a firefighter or wildland fire support personnel 
        who--
                    (A) is killed in the line of duty; or
                    (B) requires hospitalization or treatment at a 
                medical facility due to a line-of-duty injury or 
                illness.
            (2) The reimbursement of next-of-kin for expenses 
        associated with travel to visit a firefighter or wildland fire 
        support personnel who--
                    (A) is killed in the line of duty; or
                    (B) requires hospitalization or treatment at a 
                medical facility due to a line-of-duty injury or 
                illness.
            (3) The qualifications, assignment, training, duties, 
        supervision, and accountability for the performance of casualty 
        assistance responsibilities.
            (4) The relief or transfer of casualty assistance officers, 
        including notification to survivors of critical injury or 
        illness in the line of duty and next-of-kin of the reassignment 
        of such officers to other duties.
            (5) Centralized, short-term and long-term case management 
        procedures for casualty assistance, including rapid access by 
        survivors of firefighters or wildland fire support personnel 
        and casualty assistance officers to expert case managers and 
        counselors.
            (6) The provision, through a computer accessible website 
        and other means and at no cost to survivors and next-of-kin of 
        firefighters or wildland fire support personnel, of 
        personalized, integrated information on the benefits and 
        financial assistance available to such survivors from the 
        Federal Government.
            (7) The provision of information to survivors and next-of-
        kin of firefighters or wildland fire support personnel on 
        mechanisms for registering complaints about, or requests for, 
        additional assistance related to casualty assistance.
            (8) Liaison with the Department of the Interior, the 
        Department of Justice, and the Social Security Administration 
        to ensure prompt and accurate resolution of issues relating to 
        benefits administered by those agencies for survivors of 
        firefighters or wildland fire support personnel.
            (9) Data collection, in consultation with the United States 
        Fire Administration and the National Institute for Occupational 
        Safety and Health, regarding the incidence and quality of 
        casualty assistance provided to survivors of firefighters or 
        wildland fire support personnel.
    (c) Line of Duty Death Benefits.--The Program shall not affect 
existing authorities for Line of Duty Death benefits for Federal 
firefighters and wildland fire support personnel.
    (d) Next-of-Kin Defined.--In this section, the term ``next-of-kin'' 
means person or persons in the highest category of priority as 
determined by the following list (categories appear in descending order 
of priority):
            (1) Surviving legal spouse.
            (2) Children (whether by current or prior marriage) age 18 
        years or older in descending precedence by age.
            (3) Father or mother, unless by court order custody has 
        been vested in another (adoptive parent takes precedence over 
        natural parent).
            (4) Siblings (whole or half) age 18 years or older in 
        descending precedence by age.
            (5) Grandfather or grandmother.
            (6) Any other relative (precedence to be determined in 
        accordance with the civil law of descent of the deceased former 
        member's State of domicile at time of death).

                     TITLE V--WHITE OAK RESILIENCE

SEC. 501. WHITE OAK RESTORATION INITIATIVE COALITION.

    (a) In General.--The White Oak Restoration Initiative Coalition 
shall be established--
            (1) as a voluntary collaborative group of Federal, State, 
        Tribal, and local governments and private and non-governmental 
        organizations to carry out the duties described in subsection 
        (b); and
            (2) in accordance with the charter titled ``White Oak 
        Initiative Coalition Charter'' adopted by the White Oak 
        Initiative Board of Directors on March 21, 2023 (or a successor 
        charter).
    (b) Duties.--In addition to the duties specified in the charter 
described in subsection (a)(2), the duties of the White Oak Restoration 
Initiative Coalition are--
            (1) to coordinate Federal, State, Tribal, local, private, 
        and non-governmental restoration of white oak in the United 
        States; and
            (2) to make program and policy recommendations, consistent 
        with applicable forest management plans, with respect to--
                    (A) changes necessary to address Federal and State 
                policies that impede activities to improve the health, 
                resiliency, and natural regeneration of white oak;
                    (B) adopting or modifying Federal and State 
                policies to increase the pace and scale of white oak 
                regeneration and resiliency of white oak;
                    (C) options to enhance communication, coordination, 
                and collaboration between forest land owners, 
                particularly for cross-boundary projects, to improve 
                the health, resiliency, and natural regeneration of 
                white oak;
                    (D) research gaps that should be addressed to 
                improve the best available science on white oak;
                    (E) outreach to forest landowners with white oak or 
                white oak regeneration potential; and
                    (F) options and policies necessary to improve the 
                quality and quantity of white oak in tree nurseries.
    (c) Administrative Support, Technical Services, and Staff 
Support.--The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall make such personnel available to the White Oak 
Restoration Initiative Coalition for administrative support, technical 
services, and development and dissemination of educational materials as 
the Secretaries determine necessary to carry out this section.
    (d) Private Funding of White Oak Restoration Projects.--Subject to 
the availability of appropriations made in advance for such purpose, 
the Secretary of Agriculture may make funds available to the White Oak 
Restoration Initiative Coalition to carry out this section from the 
account established pursuant to section 1241(f) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(f)).

SEC. 502. FOREST SERVICE PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Forest Service, shall establish and carry out 5 pilot 
projects in national forests to restore white oak in such forests 
through white oak restoration and natural regeneration practices that 
are consistent with applicable forest management plans.
    (b) National Forests Reserved or Withdrawn From the Public 
Domain.--At least 3 pilot projects required under subsection (a) shall 
be carried out on national forests reserved or withdrawn from the 
public domain.
    (c) Authority To Enter Into Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary 
of Agriculture may enter into cooperative agreements to carry out the 
pilot projects required under subsection (a).
    (d) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 503. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR WHITE OAK REVIEW AND RESTORATION.

    (a) Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall carry 
        out an assessment of land under the administrative jurisdiction 
        of the Department of the Interior, including fish and wildlife 
        refuges and abandoned mine land, to evaluate--
                    (A) whether white oak is present on such land; and
                    (B) the potential to restore white oak forests on 
                such land.
            (2) Use of information.--In carrying out the assessment 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary may use information from 
        sources other than the Department of the Interior, including 
        from the White Oak Initiative and the Forest Service.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to 
        Congress, and make publicly available on the website of the 
        Department of the Interior, a report regarding the results of 
        the assessment carried out under this subsection.
    (b) Pilot Projects.--After the date on which the report required 
under subsection (a)(3) is submitted, the Secretary shall establish and 
carry out 5 pilot projects in different areas of land described in 
subsection (a)(1) to restore and naturally regenerate white oak.
    (c) Authority to Enter Into Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary 
of the Interior may enter into cooperative agreements to carry out the 
pilot projects required under subsection (b).
    (d) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 504. WHITE OAK REGENERATION AND UPLAND OAK HABITAT.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture (in this section 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall establish a non-regulatory 
program to be known as the ``White Oak and Upland Oak Habitat 
Regeneration Program'' (in this section referred to as the 
``Program'').
    (b) Duties.--In carrying out the Program, the Secretary shall--
            (1) draw upon the best available science and management 
        plans for species of white oak to identify, prioritize, and 
        implement restoration and conservation activities that will 
        improve the growth of white oak within the United States;
            (2) collaborate and coordinate with the White Oak 
        Restoration Initiative Coalition to prioritize white oak 
        restoration initiatives;
            (3) adopt a white oak restoration strategy that--
                    (A) supports the implementation of a shared set of 
                science-based restoration and conservation activities 
                developed in accordance with paragraph (1);
                    (B) targets cost effective projects with measurable 
                results; and
                    (C) maximizes restoration outcomes with no net gain 
                of Federal full-time equivalent employees; and
            (4) establish the voluntary grant and technical assistance 
        programs in accordance with subsection (e).
    (c) Coordination.--In establishing the Program the Secretary, 
acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall consult with--
            (1) the heads of Federal agencies, including--
                    (A) the Director of the United States Fish and 
                Wildlife Service; and
                    (B) the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation 
                Service; and
            (2) the Governor of each State in which restoration efforts 
        will be carried out pursuant to the Program.
    (d) Purposes.--The purposes of the Program include--
            (1) coordinating restoration and conservation activities 
        among Federal, State, local, and Tribal entities and 
        conservation partners to address white oak restoration 
        priorities;
            (2) improving and regenerating white oak and upland oak 
        forests and the wildlife habitat such forests provide;
            (3) carrying out coordinated restoration and conservation 
        activities that lead to the increased growth of species of 
        white oak in native white oak regions on Federal, State, 
        Tribal, and private land;
            (4) facilitating strategic planning to maximize the 
        resilience of white oak systems and habitats under changing 
        climate conditions;
            (5) engaging the public through outreach, education, and 
        citizen involvement to increase capacity and support for 
        coordinated restoration and conservation activities for species 
        of white oak; and
            (6) increasing scientific capacity to support the planning, 
        monitoring, and research activities necessary to carry out such 
        coordinated restoration and conservation activities.
    (e) Grants and Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--To the extent that funds are available to 
        carry out this section, the Secretary shall establish a 
        voluntary grant and technical assistance program (in this 
        section referred to as the ``grant program'') to achieve the 
        purposes of the Program described in subsection (d).
            (2) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall enter into a 
                cooperative agreement with the National Fish and 
                Wildlife Foundation (in this subsection referred to as 
                the ``Foundation'') to manage and administer the grant 
                program.
                    (B) Funding.--Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations made in advance for such purpose, after 
                the Secretary enters into a cooperative agreement with 
                the Foundation under subparagraph (A), the Foundation 
                shall for each fiscal year, receive amounts to carry 
                out this subsection in an advance payment of the entire 
                amount on October 1, or as soon as practicable 
                thereafter, of that fiscal year.
            (3) Application of national fish and wildlife foundation 
        establishment act.--Amounts received by the Foundation to carry 
        out the grant program shall be subject to the National Fish and 
        Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.), 
        excluding section 10(a) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3709(a)).
    (f) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 505. TREE NURSERY SHORTAGES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
the Chief of the Forest Service, shall--
            (1) develop and implement a national strategy to increase 
        the capacity of Federal, State, Tribal, and private tree 
        nurseries to address the nationwide shortage of tree seedlings; 
        and
            (2) coordinate such strategy with--
                    (A) the national reforestation strategy of the 
                Forest Service; and
                    (B) each regional implementation plan for National 
                Forests.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be based on the best available science and data; and
            (2) identify and address--
                    (A) regional seedling shortages of bareroot and 
                container tree seedlings;
                    (B) regional reforestation opportunities and the 
                seedling supply necessary to fulfill such 
                opportunities;
                    (C) opportunities to enhance seedling diversity and 
                close gaps in seed inventories; and
                    (D) barriers to expanding, enhancing, or creating 
                new infrastructure to increase nursery capacity.

SEC. 506. WHITE OAK RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture may enter into a 
memorandum of understanding with a Tribe or institution, including a 
covered land grant college, to collaboratively conduct research on--
            (1) white oak genes with resistance or tolerance to stress;
            (2) white oak trees that exhibit vigor for the purpose of 
        increasing survival and growth;
            (3) establishing a genetically diverse white oak seeds bank 
        capable of responding to stressors;
            (4) providing a sustainable supply of white oak seedlings 
        and genetic resources;
            (5) improved methods for aligning seed sources with the 
        future climate at planting sites;
            (6) reforestation of white oak through natural and 
        artificial regeneration;
            (7) improved methods for retaining and increasing white oak 
        trees in forests;
            (8) improved methods for reforesting abandoned mine land 
        sites; and
            (9) economic and social aspects of white oak forest 
        management across land ownerships.
    (b) Consult.--In carrying out the research under subsection (a), 
the Tribe or institution, including a covered land grant college, that 
enters into the memorandum of understanding under such subsection may 
consult with such States, nonprofit organizations, institutions of 
higher education, and other scientific bodies, as the entity subject to 
such memorandum determines appropriate.
    (c) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Covered Land Grant College Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered land grant college'' means an 1862 Institution, an 1890 
Institution, or a 1994 Institution (as such terms are defined, 
respectively, in section 2 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601)).

SEC. 507. USDA FORMAL INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service and in coordination 
with the Chief of the Forest Service, shall establish a formal 
initiative on white oak to--
            (1) re-establish white oak forests where appropriate;
            (2) improve management of existing white oak forests to 
        foster natural regeneration of white oak;
            (3) provide technical assistance to private landowners to 
        re-establish, improve management of, and naturally regenerate 
        white oak;
            (4) improve and expand white oak nursery stock; and
            (5) adapt and improve white oak seedlings.
    (b) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 508. AUTHORITIES.

    To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary of the Interior 
and the Secretary of Agriculture shall use the authorities provided 
under this title in combination with other authorities to carry out 
projects, including--
            (1) good neighbor agreements entered into under section 
        8206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 2113); and
            (2) stewardship contracting projects entered into under 
        section 604 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
        U.S.C. 6591).

 TITLE VI--EXPANSION OF PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS UNDER WATER SOURCE 
                           PROTECTION PROGRAM

SEC. 601. WATER SOURCE PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    Section 303 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
U.S.C. 6542(g)(4)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (7) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (8), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(1) Adjacent land.--The term `adjacent land' means non-
        Federal land, including State, local, and private land, that is 
        adjacent to, and within the same watershed as, National Forest 
        System land on which a watershed protection and restoration 
        project is carried out under this section.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (G) and 
                        (H) as subparagraphs (K) and (L), respectively; 
                        and
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (F) 
                        the following:
                    ``(G) an acequia association;
                    ``(H) a local, regional, or other public entity 
                that manages stormwater or wastewater resources or 
                other related water infrastructure;
                    ``(I) a land-grant mercedes;
                    ``(J) a local, regional, or other private entity 
                that has water delivery authority;'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary shall'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Requirements.--A watershed protection and restoration 
        project under the Program shall be designed to--
                    ``(A) protect and restore watershed health, water 
                supply and quality, a municipal or agricultural water 
                supply system, and water-related infrastructure;
                    ``(B) protect and restore forest health from insect 
                infestation and disease or wildfire; or
                    ``(C) advance any combination of the purposes 
                described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).
            ``(3) Priorities.--In selecting watershed protection and 
        restoration projects under the Program, the Secretary shall 
        give priority to projects that would--
                    ``(A) provide risk management benefits associated 
                with: drought; wildfire; post-wildfire conditions; 
                extreme weather; flooding; resilience to climate 
                change; and watershed and fire resilience, including 
                minimizing risks to watershed health, water supply and 
                quality, and water-related infrastructure, including 
                municipal and agricultural water supply systems;
                    ``(B) support aquatic restoration and conservation 
                efforts that complement existing or planned forest 
                restoration or wildfire risk reduction efforts; or
                    ``(C) provide quantifiable benefits to water supply 
                or quality and include the use of nature-based 
                solutions, such as restoring wetland and riparian 
                ecosystems.
            ``(4) Conditions for projects on adjacent land.--
                    ``(A) In general.--No project or activity may be 
                carried out under this section on adjacent land unless 
                the owner of the adjacent land agrees in writing that 
                the owner is a willing and engaged partner in carrying 
                out that project or activity.
                    ``(B) Effect.--Nothing in this section shall be 
                construed to authorize any change in--
                            ``(i) the ownership of adjacent land on 
                        which a project or activity is carried out 
                        under this section; or
                            ``(ii) the management of adjacent land on 
                        which a project or activity is carried out 
                        under this section, except during the carrying 
                        out of that project or activity.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``with end water 
                users'' and inserting ``with end water users to protect 
                and restore the condition of National Forest watersheds 
                and adjacent land that provide water--
                    ``(A) to the end water users subject to the 
                agreement; or
                    ``(B) for the benefit of another end water user.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
                        subparagraph (E); and
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (C) 
                        the following:
                    ``(D) a good neighbor agreement entered into under 
                section 8206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 
                2113a); or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Cooperation with non-federal partners.--The Secretary 
        shall cooperate with non-Federal partners in carrying out 
        assessments, planning, project design, and project 
        implementation under this section.'';
            (4) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Requirement.--A water source management plan shall 
        be--
                    ``(A) designed to protect and restore ecological 
                integrity (as defined in section 219.19 of title 36, 
                Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date 
                of enactment of this subparagraph));
                    ``(B) based on the best available scientific 
                information; and
                    ``(C) conducted in a manner consistent with the 
                forest plan applicable to the National Forest System 
                land on which the watershed protection and restoration 
                project is carried out.''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Reducing redundancy.--An existing watershed plan, 
        such as a watershed protection and restoration action plan 
        developed under section 304(a)(3), or other applicable 
        watershed planning documents as approved by the Secretary may 
        be used as the basis for a water source management plan under 
        this subsection.''; and
            (5) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``primary purpose 
        of'' and all that follows through the period at the end and 
        inserting ``primary purpose of advancing any of the purposes 
        described in subsection (b)(2).''.

SEC. 602. WATERSHED CONDITION FRAMEWORK TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    Section 304(a) of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
U.S.C. 6543(a)) is amended in paragraphs (3) and (5) by striking 
``protection and''.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 24, 2024.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 8790

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To expedite under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and 
 improve forest management activities on National Forest System lands, 
     on public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
  Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to overgrown, 
           fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes.
</pre></body></html>
