<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 8958 Reported in House (RH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;





                                                 Union Calendar No. 595
118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 8958

                          [Report No. 118-701]

 To reauthorize the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 9, 2024

   Mr. Lucas (for himself, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Babin, and Mr. Sorensen) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                     Science, Space, and Technology

                           September 23, 2024

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on July 9, 
                                 2024]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To reauthorize the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and 
                          for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``NASA 
Reauthorization Act of 2024''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 101. Fiscal year 2025.

                         TITLE II--EXPLORATION

Sec. 201. Continuity of purpose for space exploration.
Sec. 202. Artemis program.
Sec. 203. Reaffirmation of the Space Launch System.
Sec. 204. Human-rated lunar landing capabilities.
Sec. 205. Advanced spacesuit capabilities.

                      TITLE III--SPACE OPERATIONS

Sec. 301. Report on continued United States presence in low earth 
                            orbit.
Sec. 302. International Space Station.
Sec. 303. Nongovernmental missions on the International Space Station.
Sec. 304. Report on suborbital crew missions.
Sec. 305. United States deorbit capabilities.
Sec. 306. Commercial low-earth orbit development.
Sec. 307. Risk of losing access to low-earth orbit.
Sec. 308. Maintenance of service for International Space Station.
Sec. 309. Orbital debris research and development.
Sec. 310. Restriction on Federal funds relating to certain Chinese 
                            space and scientific activities.

                       TITLE IV--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 401. SBIR phase II flexibility.
Sec. 402. Lunar power purchase agreement program.
Sec. 403. Cryogenic fluid valve technology review.
Sec. 404. Lunar communications.
Sec. 405. Celestial time standardization.

                          TITLE V--AERONAUTICS

Sec. 501. Definitions.
Sec. 502. Experimental aircraft demonstrations.
Sec. 503. Hypersonic research.
Sec. 504. Advanced materials and manufacturing technology.
Sec. 505. Unmanned aircraft system and advanced air mobility.
Sec. 506. Advanced capabilities for emergency response operations.
Sec. 507. Hydrogen aviation.
Sec. 508. High-performance chase aircraft.
Sec. 509. Collaboration with academia.
Sec. 510. National student unmanned aircraft systems competition 
                            program.
Sec. 511. Decadal survey for national aeronautics research and 
                            priorities review.
Sec. 512. Making advancements in commercial hypersonics.

                           TITLE VI--SCIENCE

Sec. 601. Maintaining a balanced science portfolio.
Sec. 602. Implementation of science mission cost-caps.
Sec. 603. Reexamination of decadal surveys.
Sec. 604. Landsat.
Sec. 605. Private earth observation data.
Sec. 606. Commercial satellite data.
Sec. 607. Greenhouse gas emission measurements.
Sec. 608. NASA data for agricultural applications.
Sec. 609. Planetary science portfolio.
Sec. 610. Planetary defense.
Sec. 611. Lunar discovery and exploration.
Sec. 612. Commercial lunar payload services.
Sec. 613. Planetary and lunar operations.
Sec. 614. Mars sample return.
Sec. 615. Hubble space telescope servicing.
Sec. 616. Great observatories mission and technology maturation.
Sec. 617. Nancy Grace Roman telescope.
Sec. 618. Chandra X-Ray observatory.
Sec. 619. Heliophysics research.
Sec. 620. Study on commercial space weather data.
Sec. 621. Geospace dynamics constellation.
Sec. 622. Technology development for wildland fire science, management, 
                            and mitigation.
Sec. 623. Implementation of recommendations by the National Wildland 
                            Fire Management and Mitigation Commission.

                       TITLE VII--STEM EDUCATION

Sec. 701. National space grant college and fellowship program.
Sec. 702. Skilled technical workforce education outreach.

                        TITLE VIII--POLICY/NASA

Sec. 801. Major programs.
Sec. 802. NASA advisory council.
Sec. 803. NASA assessment of early cost estimates.
Sec. 804. Independent cost estimate.
Sec. 805. Office of Technology, Policy, and Strategy report.
Sec. 806. Authorization for the transfer to NASA of funds from other 
                            agencies for scientific or engineering 
                            research or education.
Sec. 807. Procedure for launch services risk mitigation.
Sec. 808. Report on merits and options for establishing an institute 
                            relating to space resources.
Sec. 809. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 810. Contract flexibility.
Sec. 811. GAO report.
Sec. 812. NASA public-private talent program.
Sec. 813. Report on Space Act agreements.
Sec. 814. Mentoring.
Sec. 815. Drinking water well replacement for Chincoteague, Virginia.
Sec. 816. Rule of construction.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (3) Cislunar space.--The term ``cislunar space'' means the 
        region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including the 
        region around the surface of the Moon.
            (4) Commercial provider.--The term ``commercial provider'' 
        means any person providing space services or space-related 
        capabilities, primary control of which is held by persons other 
        than the Federal Government, a State or local government, or a 
        foreign government.
            (5) Deep space.--The term ``deep space'' means the region 
        of space beyond low-Earth orbit, which includes cislunar space.
            (6) ISS.--The term ``ISS'' means the International Space 
        Station.
            (7) NASA.--The term ``NASA'' means the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration.
            (8) Orion.--The term ``Orion'' means the multipurpose crew 
        vehicle described under section 303 of the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 
        18323).
            (9) Space launch system.--The term ``Space Launch System'' 
        means the Space Launch System authorized under section 302 of 
        the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization 
        Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18322).

                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 101. FISCAL YEAR 2025.

    For fiscal year 2025, there are authorized to be appropriated to 
NASA $25,224,640,000 as follows:
            (1) For the Exploration Systems Development Mission 
        Directorate, $7,618,200,000.
            (2) For the Space Operations Mission Directorate, 
        $4,473,500,000.
            (3) For the Space Technology Mission Directorate, 
        $1,181,800,000.
            (4) For the Science Mission Directorate, $7,334,200,000.
            (5) For the Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate, 
        $965,800,000.
            (6) For the Office of STEM Engagement, $135,000,000.
            (7) For Safety, Security, and Mission Services, 
        $3,044,440,000.
            (8) For Construction and Environmental Compliance and 
        Restoration, $424,100,000.
            (9) For Inspector General, $47,600,000.

                         TITLE II--EXPLORATION

SEC. 201. CONTINUITY OF PURPOSE FOR SPACE EXPLORATION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) NASA continues to make progress in developing and 
        testing the Space Launch System, Orion, and associated ground 
        systems, including through the successful completion of the 
        Artemis I mission in November 2022 and through continued 
        preparations for the Artemis II crewed flight demonstration 
        mission.
            (2) The number of spacefaring countries is increasing, and 
        foreign countries have expanded activities for space 
        exploration efforts, including efforts to explore and utilize 
        the Moon through human and robotic missions.
            (3) A strong and ambitious space exploration program 
        conducted with international and commercial partners is 
        important to maintaining United States leadership in space and 
        enhancing United States international competitiveness.
            (4) Clear mission objectives that tie to concrete, long-
        term programmatic goals provide a measure to ensure 
        accountability, enhance public support for exploration 
        missions, and provide a clear signal of commitment to both 
        international and domestic partners.
    (b) Continuity of Existing Capabilities and Programs.--
            (1) As part of the human exploration activities of the 
        Administration, including progress on Artemis missions and 
        activities, the Administrator shall continue development of 
        space exploration elements pursuant to section 10811 of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2022 (Public Law 117-167; 51 U.S.C. 20302).
            (2) The Administrator shall leverage the private sector for 
        logistical services to the extent practical, consistent with 
        the Moon to Mars architecture requirements and in accordance 
        with section 50131 of title 51, United States Code.
            (3) Congress reaffirms the sense of Congress to maintain 
        continuity of purpose as described in section 201 of the 2017 
        NASA Transition Authorization Act (Public Law 115-10; 131 Stat. 
        21).

SEC. 202. ARTEMIS PROGRAM.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--The following is the sense of Congress:
            (1) Exploration of outer space, including exploration of 
        the lunar surface and cislunar space, provides benefits and 
        economic opportunity, including by inspiring future generations 
        and expanding the science, technology, engineering, and 
        mathematics workforce needed to sustain United States 
        leadership in science, space, and technology.
            (2) The lunar south pole is home to shadowed craters that 
        may contain water ice and other volatiles. Understanding the 
        nature of lunar polar volatiles, such as water ice, would 
        advance science related to the origin and evolution of 
        volatiles in the inner solar system and could facilitate the 
        long-term future of space exploration. Water ice lunar 
        resources have the potential to become an enabling component of 
        future space exploration missions throughout the solar system, 
        including crewed missions to Mars.
            (3) Other countries have demonstrated technological 
        advances and successful robotic missions for lunar exploration 
        and have announced credible plans for long-term human 
        exploration of the Moon that include the intent to establish 
        lunar bases.
            (4) United States leadership of and measurable progress on 
        the exploration of deep space is essential for guiding 
        development of norms related to operations on and around the 
        Moon and for other space destinations.
            (5) It is in the national interest of the United States to 
        hold a leadership role in discussions of future norms governing 
        activities in space, including those on the lunar surface and 
        in cislunar space.
    (b) In General.--In carrying out activities to enable Artemis 
missions under the Moon to Mars Program set forth in section 10811 of 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 
2022 (Public Law 117-167), the Administrator shall--
            (1) use relevant elements set forth in section 
        10811(b)(2)(B) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167);
            (2) continue to ensure that the elements under paragraph 
        (1) enable the human exploration of Mars, consistent with 
        section 10811(b)(2)(C)(i) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167);
            (3) engage with international partners, as appropriate, in 
        a manner that is consistent with section 10811(b)(2)(C) the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2022 (Public Law 117-167), and that increases redundancy, 
        efficiency, and cost savings; and
            (4) leverage capabilities provided by United States 
        commercial providers, as appropriate and practicable.
    (c) United States Commercial Provider Capabilities in Support of 
Lunar Exploration Efforts.--The Administrator may enter into agreements 
with United States commercial providers or engage in public-private 
partnerships to procure capabilities and services to support the human 
exploration of the Moon or cislunar space.

SEC. 203. REAFFIRMATION OF THE SPACE LAUNCH SYSTEM.

    (a) Space Launch System.--
            (1) Development and cadence objectives.--Congress 
        reaffirms--
                    (A) support for the full development of 
                capabilities of the Space Launch System as set forth in 
                section 302(c) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 
                18322(c)); and
                    (B) its commitment to the flight rate of the 
                integrated Space Launch System and Orion crew vehicle 
                missions set forth in section 10812(b) of the National 
                Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
                of 2022 (Public Law 117-167; 51 U.S.C. 20301 note).
            (2) Other uses.--The Administrator shall assess the demand 
        for the Space Launch System by entities other than NASA and 
        shall break out such demand according to the relevant Federal 
        agency or nongovernment sector. This assessment may--
                    (A) estimate cost and schedule savings from reduced 
                transit times and the potential for increased returns 
                enabled by the unique capabilities of the Space Launch 
                System;
                    (B) describe any barriers or challenges that could 
                impede use of the Space Launch System by entities other 
                than NASA; and
                    (C) identify potential actions and costs associated 
                with overcoming barriers and challenges described in 
                subparagraph (B).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the following:
            (1) NASA's progress towards achieving the flight rate 
        referred to in subsection (a)(1)(B) and the expected launch of 
        the integrated Space Launch System and Orion crew vehicle 
        missions after which such cadence shall be achieved.
            (2) The results of the assessment conducted pursuant to 
        subsection (a)(2).

SEC. 204. HUMAN-RATED LUNAR LANDING CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Reaffirmation.--Congress reaffirms that the Moon to Mars 
program set forth in section 10811 of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167; 51 
U.S.C. 20302 note.; 136 Stat. 1732) shall include human-rated lunar 
landing systems.
    (b) Human-rated Lunar Landing Capabilities.--
            (1) The Administrator shall support the development and 
        demonstration of, and shall obtain, human-rated lunar landing 
        capabilities to further the goals of the human exploration 
        roadmap under section 432 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 
        115-10; 51 U.S.C. 20302 note) and the Moon to Mars Program set 
        forth in section 10811 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167).
            (2) The Administrator shall ensure that such human-rated 
        lunar landing capabilities meet all relevant requirements, 
        including requirements of the Moon to Mars program, and for 
        human-rating and certification.
            (3) Any commercial provider from which the Administrator 
        obtains human-rated lunar landing capabilities must be a United 
        States commercial provider.
            (4) In carrying out paragraph (1)--
                    (A) the Administrator may include uncrewed lunar 
                landing services; and
                    (B) the Administrator shall, subject to the 
                availability of appropriations for such purpose, seek 
                to obtain capabilities from not fewer than two 
                commercial providers.
    (c) Report.--The Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress the following:
            (1) Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, a report--
                    (A) identifying the contribution over the past five 
                years, and the planned contribution for 2024-2029, of 
                government personnel, expertise, technologies and 
                infrastructure utilized and to be utilized in support 
                of design, development, or operation of human lunar 
                landing capabilities under this section; and
                    (B) setting forth details and the associated costs 
                of such government support, broken out according to the 
                areas of contribution specified in subparagraph (A), as 
                part of any development initiative for obtaining human 
                lunar landing capabilities.
            (2) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, a report that sets forth, for any agreement with a 
        United States commercial provider for human lunar landing 
        capabilities, the following:
                    (A) The total value of the agreement when awarded.
                    (B) If different from the amount in subparagraph 
                (A), the total value of the agreement as of the date of 
                the enactment of this Act, and an explanation for any 
                change in value, as well as an identification of 
                whether NASA or the commercial partner is responsible 
                for meeting the change in value.
                    (C) The dollar amount invested and to be invested 
                by the Administration, and the dollar amount invested 
                and to be invested by the commercial partner.
                    (D) The full requirements, including human-rating 
                and safety requirements, for human lunar landing 
                capabilities under the agreement when awarded.
                    (E) If different from the amount specified in 
                subparagraph (C), the full requirements, including 
                human-rating and certification requirements, for the 
                human lunar landing capabilities under the agreement as 
                of the date of the enactment of this Act and an 
                explanation for any changes in requirements.
                    (F) A description of milestone and associated 
                payments provided for in the agreement, including the 
                following:
                            (i) An identification of all milestones 
                        under the agreement.
                            (ii) The value of the associated payment 
                        for each milestone identified under clause (i).
                            (iii) An identification of completed 
                        milestones and the date of completion.
                            (iv) An identification of milestones which 
                        have not yet been completed and an estimated 
                        schedule for completion.
                            (v) The value of all NASA payments under 
                        the agreement, outlays as of the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act, and the amount which as 
                        of the date of the enactment of this Act has 
                        not yet been paid.
                            (vi) a description of any changes in 
                        milestones and associated payments between the 
                        date of contract award and the date of the 
                        enactment of this Act.
                    (G) Any cost, schedule, and performance challenges 
                as of the date of the enactment of this Act in provider 
                performance of the agreement.
                    (H) A detailed justification of compliance with 
                section 30301 of title 51, United States Code.
                    (I) A detailed certification and justification of 
                compliance with section 50503 of title 51, United 
                States Code.
            (3) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, in consultation with any United States commercial 
        provider that is party to an agreement with NASA for human 
        lunar landing capabilities under this section, a report on any 
        steps the Administrator and such providers are taking to carry 
        out the following:
                    (A) Address cost, schedule, and performance 
                challenges faced by each commercial provider in 
                development and performance of human lunar landing 
                capabilities described in paragraph (2)(G).
                    (B) Facilitate the timely availability of human 
                lunar landing capabilities of each provider to support 
                the schedule of Artemis missions in effect as of the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, as applicable to 
                each provider.
            (4) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, a report on alternative approaches, and 
        implementation plans for such approaches, including an estimate 
        of needed budgetary resources, for a human lunar landing 
        capability that meets NASA human-rating and certification 
        requirements in the event challenges referred to in paragraph 
        (3)(A) cannot be overcome or the timeline specified in 
        paragraph (3)(B) cannot be met.

SEC. 205. ADVANCED SPACESUIT CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Space suits and associated extravehicular activity 
        (EVA) technologies are critical exploration technologies that 
        are necessary for future human deep space exploration efforts, 
        including crewed missions to the Moon.
            (2) The NASA civil service workforce at the Johnson Space 
        Center provides unique capabilities to design, integrate, and 
        validate Space Suits and associated EVA technologies.
            (3) Maintaining a strong NASA core competency in the 
        design, development, manufacture, and operation of space suits 
        and related technologies allows NASA to be an informed 
        purchaser of competitively awarded commercial space suits and 
        subcomponents.
            (4) According to a 2018 NASA Office of Inspector General 
        (OIG) report, current EVAs space suits, the Extravehicular 
        Mobility Units (EMUs), were developed in the late 1970s, are 
        reaching the end of their useful life, have experienced 
        multiple maintenance issues that threaten astronaut lives, and 
        no longer accommodate the varying sizes of a diverse astronaut 
        corps.
            (5) The same NASA OIG report found that ``. . . 
        manufacturers of several critical suit components, including 
        the very fibers of the suits, have now gone out of business. . 
        . ,'' which further reinforces the importance of NASA's role in 
        maintaining a space suit core competency and limiting the risk 
        posed by outsourcing key national capabilities.
            (6) The private sector currently is developing space suit 
        capabilities.
            (7) Testing space suits and related technologies on the 
        International Space Station could reduce risk and improve 
        safety of such suits and technologies.
    (b) In General.--The Administrator shall obtain advanced spacesuit 
capabilities necessary to achieve the goals of NASA's human spaceflight 
exploration programs.
    (c) Eligibility.--Any commercial provider from which the 
Administrator obtains advanced spaceflight capabilities must be a 
United States commercial provider, as set forth in section 203(c) of 
this Act.
    (d) Preserving Spacesuit Expertise.--
            (1) In carrying out subsection (b), NASA shall maintain the 
        internal expertise necessary to develop space suits for both 
        extravehicular activity and surface operations, including 
        through partnerships with the private sector.
            (2) The Johnson Space Center shall continue to manage 
        NASA's spacesuit and extravehicular activity programs.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 180 days from the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report --
            (1) describing NASA's plans for--
                    (A) in-space testing of advanced spacesuit 
                capabilities, including--
                            (i) space suit tests which must be 
                        conducted in microgravity in low-Earth orbit; 
                        and
                            (ii) space suit tests that must be 
                        conducted on the International Space Station 
                        before decommissioning of the International 
                        Space Station;
                    (B) transitioning from existing spacesuits in use 
                on the International Space Station to use of advanced 
                spacesuit capabilities;
                    (C) future use of advanced spacesuit capabilities 
                by government astronauts with any nongovernmental 
                platform in low-Earth orbit that is certified for use 
                by the Administration for government astronauts (as 
                such term is defined in section 50902(4) of title 51, 
                United States Code); and
                    (D) disposition of retired spacesuits used on the 
                Space Shuttle or the International Space Station; and
            (2) including--
                    (A) a detailed justification of compliance with 
                section 30301 of title 51, United States Code; and
                    (B) a detailed certification and justification of 
                compliance with section 50503 of title 51, United 
                States Code.
    (f) Assessment of Extravehicular Mobility Units Used on the ISS.--
            (1) No later than 45 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Administrator shall enter into an arrangement 
        with an independent science and technical engineering 
        organization to review the technical status and performance of 
        the Administration's existing extravehicular mobility units 
        (``EMUs''), to analyze the data associated with all mishaps, 
        anomalies, and off-nominal events related to the EMUs used by 
        government astronauts on the International Space Station over 
        the last 10 years, and to make recommendations to the 
        Administrator, as a result of such assessment.
            (2) The Administrator shall ensure that the entity carrying 
        out the assessment in paragraph (1) consults with relevant 
        industry contractors regarding the Administration's EMUs and 
        EMU capabilities, and coordinates with the NASA Astronaut 
        Office in carrying out such assessment.
            (3) The Administrator shall transmit the results of the 
        assessment in paragraph (1) to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress as soon as practicable and no later than 270 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act.

                      TITLE III--SPACE OPERATIONS

SEC. 301. REPORT ON CONTINUED UNITED STATES PRESENCE IN LOW EARTH 
              ORBIT.

    Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General shall transmit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report containing information on the 
following:
            (1) The United States Government description of and plans 
        for implementation of the policy on an uninterrupted capability 
        for human space flight and operations in accordance with 
        section 70501(a) of title 51, United States Code, and section 
        201(b) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18311(b)) regarding United 
        States human space flight capabilities.
            (2) The preparedness of the Administration to continue to 
        meet statutory direction referenced in paragraph (1) under the 
        planned approach to deorbit the International Space Station by 
        not later than the end of calendar year 2031.

SEC. 302. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) ISS is a unique facility that provides the United 
        States with capabilities in space that are currently unmatched; 
        NASA continues to make productive use of the ISS;
            (2) the ISS serves several functions, including 
        establishing the United States as a leader in space activities, 
        acting as a beacon of international cooperation, and conducting 
        cutting-edge microgravity and observational research in low-
        Earth orbit;
            (3) NASA must complete certain objectives on the ISS to 
        facilitate deep space exploration efforts, including carrying 
        out human research and demonstrating exploration-related 
        technologies; and
            (4) reducing crew size or cargo deliveries, or reducing 
        sustaining engineering capabilities, would reduce the 
        scientific output of the ISS and potentially increase the risk 
        to the ISS and its crew.
    (b) Full Utilization.--
            (1) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, 
        to ensure the greatest return on investments made by the United 
        States and the International Space Station partners in the 
        development, assembly, and operations of the International 
        Space Station, the Administrator should maximize the 
        utilization and productivity of the International Space Station 
        with respect to the priorities set forth in section 10816 of 
        the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization 
        Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167; 51 U.S.C. 70901 note), which 
        include research of the human research program, risk reduction 
        activities relevant to exploration technologies, the 
        advancement of United States leadership of basic and applied 
        space life and physical sciences, and other research and 
        development essential to Moon to Mars program activities.
            (2) Amendment.--Section 502(a) of the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (Public Law 
        111-267; 42 U.S.C. 18352(a)), is amended by striking ``take 
        steps to''.

SEC. 303. NONGOVERNMENTAL MISSIONS ON THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) nongovernmental missions involving crew or spaceflight 
        participants on the International Space Station carried out, as 
        appropriate, pursuant to NASA policies and procedures, and 
        Federal Government laws and regulations, can provide lessons 
        and learning experiences for both government and nongovernment 
        entities to inform the development of future commercial low-
        Earth orbit platforms and a low-Earth orbit economy; and
            (2) the Administrator should share lessons learned from 
        nongovernmental missions on the International Space Station to 
        advance the commercial human spaceflight industry, to promote 
        the safety of future commercial low-Earth orbit platforms, and 
        to inform the evolution of policies guiding such activities in 
        low-Earth orbit.
    (b) Nongovernmental Missions on the ISS.--The Administrator may 
enter into one or more agreements to enable one or more United States 
commercial providers to conduct nongovernmental missions on the 
International Space Station pursuant to NASA policies and procedures, 
and Federal government laws and regulations.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
containing information relating to the following:
            (1) The number of nongovernmental missions on the ISS 
        planned.
            (2) The number of nongovernmental missions on the ISS 
        completed.
            (3) The extent to which commercial entities carrying out 
        nongovernmental missions on the ISS fully reimburse costs 
        incurred by NASA in association with any nongovernmental 
        missions carried out on the International Space Station.
            (4) The extent to which nongovernmental missions on the 
        International Space Station impact the priorities specified in 
        section 10816 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167; 
        51 U.S.C. 70901 note).
            (5) The impact, if any, to operations of or activities on 
        the International Space Station that are not related to 
        nongovernmental missions on the International Space Station.
            (6) The extent to which any nongovernmental mission on the 
        ISS--
                    (A) conforms with section 20102 of title 51, United 
                States Code;
                    (B) adheres to the requirements of section 50131 of 
                title 51, United States Code; and
                    (C) is consistent with the national security or 
                foreign policy interests of the United States.
            (7) Any other issues related to nongovernmental missions on 
        the International Space Station that the Comptroller General 
        determines are appropriate for review as part of undertaking 
        the report in subsection (c).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``crew'' and 
``spaceflight participant'' have the meanings given such terms in 
section 50902 of title 51, United States Code.

SEC. 304. REPORT ON SUBORBITAL CREW MISSIONS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Administrator shall deliver to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report on the costs, benefits, risks, training requirements, 
and policy or legal implications, including liability matters, of 
launching United States Government personnel on commercial suborbital 
vehicles.

SEC. 305. UNITED STATES DEORBIT CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the International Space Station is aging and eventually 
        will need to be deorbited safely and disposed of in a 
        controlled manner; and
            (2) to protect the safety of the public, and to avoid 
        interfering with other space operators or objects, NASA plans 
        to deorbit and disposition the International Space Station 
        through a controlled atmospheric reentry over an uninhabited 
        region.
    (b) Authorization.--
            (1) The Administrator shall acquire ISS deorbit 
        capabilities from one or more United States commercial 
        providers.
            (2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Administrator shall, 
        to the greatest extent practicable, not reduce or deprioritize 
        NASA activities conducted on and in support of the ISS to 
        support the acquisition of United States deorbit capabilities.
    (c) Costs.--
            (1) Independent cost estimate.--Before entering into an 
        agreement for the capabilities described in subsection (b), the 
        Administrator shall obtain an independent life-cycle cost 
        estimate for the deorbit capability and shall report the 
        results of such estimate and a five-year budget profile to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress.
            (2) Report.--
                    (A) Not later than one year after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit 
                to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
                detailing the Administration's plan for the financial, 
                logistical, and operational responsibilities associated 
                with the deorbit capability.
                    (B) Annually, the Administrator shall submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report, to 
                accompany the President's budget request, containing a 
                description of the annual and lifecycle costs for 
                activities related to the deorbit of the International 
                Space Station and how such costs are shared among the 
                ISS partners.

SEC. 306. COMMERCIAL LOW-EARTH ORBIT DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Strategy.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with the 
National Space Council, shall transmit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a strategy for a robust and resilient architecture to advance 
NASA and other relevant Federal government civil research, development, 
and operational requirements in low-Earth orbit. The architecture 
should--
            (1) include a mix of crewed and uncrewed platforms;
            (2) consider an incremental approach to achieving the full 
        suite of capabilities necessary to meet NASA research, 
        development, and operational requirements in low-Earth orbit;
            (3) consider the requirements described in subsection (b); 
        and
            (4) sustain and promote United States leadership and 
        international partnerships in carrying out low-Earth orbit 
        activities.
    (b) Requirements.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall transmit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress and make available to relevant 
United States commercial industry entities, a detailed account of the 
research, development, and operational requirements for NASA activities 
in low-Earth orbit, including any requirements that could affect the 
design, development, instrumentation, and long-term operations of 
future United States commercial low-Earth orbit platforms and 
supporting capabilities. In preparing the detailed account of research, 
development, and operational requirements, the Administrator may 
consider the requirements of other relevant Federal agencies.
    (c) Authorization.--The Administrator is authorized to enter into 
agreements with one or more United States commercial providers to 
enable the development and certification of, and procure capabilities 
related to, a United States private, low-Earth orbit platform or 
platforms, and to use such platforms or platforms and related 
capabilities to achieve the goals set forth in the strategy under 
subsection (a), to sustain the priorities described in section 10816 of 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 
2022 (Public Law 117-167; 51 U.S.C. 70901 note) and the activities 
under the Human Exploration Roadmap pursuant to section 432(b)(2)(J) of 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition 
Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10), and to meet the 
requirements described in subsection (b).
    (d) Anchor Tenancy.--No later than November 15, 2025, the 
Administrator shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress 
the following:
            (1) The results of a survey and assessment of the market 
        for capabilities and services that may be provided through 
        future United States commercial low-Earth orbit platforms that 
        shall be prepared by an independent entity with appropriate 
        expertise;
            (2) A detailed justification of compliance with section 
        30301 of title 51, United States Code.
            (3) A detailed certification and justification of 
        compliance with section 50503 of title 51, United States Code.
    (e) Use of United States Launch and Reentry Services.--As a term of 
an agreement entered into under to subsection (c), the Administrator 
shall include a requirement for the use of United States commercially-
provided launch and reentry services to support all Administration 
activities under the agreement, in accordance with section 50131 of 
title 51, United States Code, as applicable.
    (f) Safety.--When an agreement under subsection (c) involves a 
government astronauts (as such term is defined in section 50902(4) of 
title 51, United States Code), the Administrator shall protect the 
safety of the government astronaut by ensuring that each platform under 
the agreement meets all applicable human rating processes, 
certification, and safety requirements.

SEC. 307. RISK OF LOSING ACCESS TO LOW-EARTH ORBIT.

    Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report that evaluates the risk posed by a potential gap in 
access to low-Earth orbit on science and technology research and 
development conducted by NASA and private entities. The report shall 
describe the following:
            (1) The NASA science and exploration programs that may be 
        adversely affected by the lack of a United States presence in 
        low-Earth orbit.
            (2) The effects that a gap in low-Earth orbit would have on 
        the United States' competitiveness in science and technology 
        and in the development of the United States-based commercial 
        space industry.
            (3) Potential options and associated costs for preventing 
        such a gap, including the following:
                    (A) Implementing the strategy described in section 
                306.
                    (B) Supporting the operation of the International 
                Space Station beyond 2030.
                    (C) Increasing investment in and accelerating 
                development of commercial space stations.
                    (D) Working with international partners to 
                establish alternative means for conducting research in 
                low-Earth orbit.

SEC. 308. MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE FOR INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION.

    (a) In General.--Subject to appropriations for such purpose, the 
Administrator shall maintain a flight cadence necessary to support the 
health and safety of the International Space Station crew and the full 
and productive utilization of the International Space Station through 
its operational lifetime, consistent with the certification date of the 
International Space Station. In maintaining such flight cadence, the 
Administrator shall seek to carry out not less than the average annual 
cadence for the immediately preceding three fiscal years of crew and 
cargo flights on United States vehicles certified under NASA's 
Commercial Crew and Cargo Program as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) Waiver.--The Administrator may waive the requirement under 
subsection (a) upon submission of a written determination to Congress 
that--
            (1) the health and safety of the International Space 
        Station requires a reduction in flights; or
            (2) the International Space Station has concluded its 
        operational lifetime.

SEC. 309. ORBITAL DEBRIS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that NASA's 
research and development activities related to understanding and 
mitigating the hazards posed by orbital debris are critical to ensuring 
the continued safe operation of NASA missions, including the safety of 
humans living and working in space, and such activities further enable 
scientific and technological advances that can be leveraged by the 
broader space operations community to foster a sustainable space 
environment.
    (b) Research and Development.--The Administrator shall, to the 
extent practicable, conduct research and development to advance 
scientific understanding and technological capabilities related to 
orbital debris characterization and mitigation.
    (c) Considerations.--In conducting the research and development 
described in subsection (b), the Administrator may consider activities 
that--
            (1) improve the characterization and modeling of the space 
        environment, including the characterization and modeling of 
        objects of both natural and anthropogenic origins that cannot 
        be directly characterized by ground-based measurements;
            (2) leverage space weather research and development 
        elements within NASA's Heliophysics program, to the extent 
        appropriate and in accordance with the priorities established 
        in the most recent solar and space physics decadal survey; and
            (3) support the application of relevant research, tools, 
        and technologies to advance orbital debris characterization and 
        mitigation and the transfer of such research, tools, and 
        technologies to stakeholders, as appropriate and practicable.

SEC. 310. RESTRICTION ON FEDERAL FUNDS RELATING TO CERTAIN CHINESE 
              SPACE AND SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--No Federal funds authorized in this Act may be 
obligated or expended for the following:
            (1) For the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        (NASA), the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), or 
        the National Space Council (NSC) to develop, design, plan, 
        promulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral policy, program, 
        order, or contract of any kind to participate, collaborate, or 
        coordinate bilaterally in any way with China or any Chinese-
        owned company unless such activities are specifically 
        authorized by a law enacted after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) To effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors 
        at facilities belonging to or utilized by NASA.
    (b) Exception.--The restrictions described in subsection (a) shall 
not apply to activities with respect to which NASA, OSTP, or NSC, after 
consultation with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, have certified--
            (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of 
        technology, data, or other information with national security 
        or economic security implications to China or a Chinese-owned 
        company; and
            (2) will not involve knowing interactions with officials 
        who have been determined by the United States to have direct 
        involvement with violations of human rights.
    (c) Submission.--Any certification made under subsection (b) shall 
be submitted to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
not later than 30 days prior to the activity in question. Any such 
certification shall include a description of the purpose of such 
activity, its agenda, its major participants, and its location and 
timing.

                       TITLE IV--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 401. SBIR PHASE II FLEXIBILITY.

    Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638) is amended in 
subsection (cc) by striking ``and the Department of Education'' and 
inserting ``the Department of Education, and the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration''.

SEC. 402. LUNAR POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Study.--The Administrator may enter into an arrangement with an 
independent entity with appropriate expertise to conduct a study 
evaluating the feasibility of using power purchase agreements to 
facilitate the development and deployment of lunar surface power.
    (b) Contents.--The study conducted under subsection (a) may include 
the following:
            (1) An identification of facilities and technical 
        capabilities needed to support lunar surface power production.
            (2) A demand forecast for lunar surface power, including 
        the following:
                    (A) Forecasted demand of both governmental and 
                nongovernmental users.
                    (B) To support the following:
                            (i) Near-term exploration activities.
                            (ii) Long-duration activities.
            (3) Potential policy and legal issues associated with lunar 
        power purchase agreements between providers and the United 
        States Government, international partners, and other private 
        sector entities.
    (c) Coordination.--In conducting the study under this section, the 
Administrator may consult with the following:
            (1) The Lunar Surface Innovation Consortium.
            (2) The Department of Energy, the Department of Commerce, 
        and other Federal agencies, as determined appropriate by the 
        Administrator.
            (3) International partners.
            (4) Relevant private sector entities.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 24 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator may submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report that describes the results of the study 
conducted pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 403. CRYOGENIC FLUID VALVE TECHNOLOGY REVIEW.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that advancing 
cryogenic fluid valve technology would support the Administration's 
efforts to improve cryogenic fluid management and improve space vehicle 
reliability and efficiency.
    (b) Technology and Research Review.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, subject to the availability of 
appropriations, the Administrator shall enter into an agreement with an 
independent research and development center or other independent 
nonprofit organization, as determined appropriate by the Administrator, 
to conduct a review of cryogenic fluid valve technology in accordance 
with this section. The organization shall review recent advances in 
technologies related to cryogenic fluid valve use in space applications 
and assess opportunities to improve cryogenic fluid valve technologies, 
including support for research and development activities to advance 
materials engineering for cryogenic fluid valves.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the organization conducting the review shall 
submit to the Administrator and the appropriate committees of Congress 
a report detailing the results of the review conducted under this 
section.

SEC. 404. LUNAR COMMUNICATIONS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Reliable communication and navigation capabilities are 
        essential for sustainable human and robotic exploration of the 
        Moon.
            (2) Fostering the development of commercial capabilities 
        can accelerate the deployment of lunar communication and 
        navigation services.
    (b) In General.--The Administrator is authorized to develop a 
robust and resilient architecture for lunar communications and 
navigation to support the Administration's human and robotic lunar 
exploration activities.
    (c) Study and Plan.--To inform the development in subsection (a), 
the Administrator shall develop a study and prepare a plan to--
            (1) enable interoperable communications and navigation 
        services for cislunar missions;
            (2) work with the private sector, other Federal agencies, 
        and, as appropriate, international partners to establish 
        technical standards, consistent with section 12(d) of the 
        National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 
        (Public Law 104-113), protocols, and interface requirements for 
        cislunar communications and navigation services and systems;
            (3) support NASA lunar activities;
            (4) leverage NASA's space technology research, development, 
        and demonstration activities related to space communications 
        and navigation; and
            (5) evaluate the opportunities, benefits, feasibility, and 
        challenges of potentially using commercial cislunar 
        communication and navigation services, as appropriate, by 
        United States commercial providers.

SEC. 405. CELESTIAL TIME STANDARDIZATION.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) United States leadership of a sustained presence on the 
        Moon and in deep space exploration is important for advancing 
        science, exploration, commercial growth, and international 
        partnership;
            (2) the Artemis and Moon to Mars program of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) will involve 
        governmental, commercial, academic, and international partners 
        where there is a need for interoperability between systems;
            (3) the use of Coordinated Universal Time has challenges 
        when used beyond Earth at other celestial bodies, due to 
        relativistic effects;
            (4) the United States should lead in developing time 
        standardization for the Moon and other celestial bodies other 
        than Earth to support interoperability and safe and sustainable 
        operations; and
            (5) development of such standardization will advance United 
        States leadership in standards setting for global 
        competitiveness, and will benefit other spacefaring countries 
        and entities.
    (b) Development of Celestial Time Standardization.--The 
Administrator of NASA, in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Science and Technology Policy, shall carry out the following:
            (1) Enable the development of celestial time 
        standardization, including by leading the study and definition 
        of a coordinated lunar time.
            (2) Develop a strategy to implement a coordinated lunar 
        time that would support future operations and infrastructure on 
        and around the Moon.
            (3) In carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2)--
                    (A) coordinate with relevant Federal entities, 
                including the Department of Commerce, the Department of 
                Defense, the Department of State, and the Department of 
                Transportation; and
                    (B) consult with--
                            (i) relevant private sector entities;
                            (ii) relevant academic entities; and
                            (iii) relevant international standards 
                        setting bodies.
            (4) Incorporate the following features of a coordinated 
        lunar time, to the extent practicable, in the development of 
        the strategy developed pursuant to paragraph (2):
                    (A) Traceability to Coordinated Universal Time.
                    (B) Accuracy sufficient to support precision 
                navigation and science.
                    (C) Resilience to loss of contact with Earth.
                    (D) Scalability to space environments beyond the 
                Earth-Moon system.
    (c) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of NASA shall submit to the 
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate a report describing the strategy developed 
pursuant to subsection (b)(2), including relevant plans, timelines, and 
resources required for the implementation of a coordinated lunar time 
pursuant to such strategy.

                          TITLE V--AERONAUTICS

SEC. 501. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Advanced air mobility; aam.--The terms ``advanced air 
        mobility'' and ``AAM'' mean a transportation system that is 
        comprised of urban air mobility and regional air mobility using 
        manned or unmanned aircraft.
            (2) Regional air mobility.--The term ``regional air 
        mobility'' means the movement of passengers or property by air 
        between 2 points using an airworthy aircraft that--
                    (A) has advanced technologies, such as distributed 
                propulsion, vertical takeoff and landing, powered lift, 
                nontraditional power systems, or autonomous 
                technologies;
                    (B) has a maximum takeoff weight of greater than 
                1,320 pounds; and
                    (C) is not urban air mobility.
            (3) Unmanned aircraft system.--The term ``unmanned aircraft 
        system'' has the meanings given such term in section 44801 of 
        title 49, United States Code.
            (4) Urban air mobility.--The term ``urban air mobility'' 
        means the movement of passengers or property by air between 2 
        points in different cities or 2 points within the same city 
        using an airworthy aircraft that--
                    (A) has advanced technologies, such as distributed 
                propulsion, vertical takeoff and landing, powered lift, 
                nontraditional power systems, or autonomous 
                technologies; and
                    (B) has a maximum takeoff weight of greater than 
                1,320 pounds.
            (5) Utm.--The term ``UTM'' means an unmanned aircraft 
        system traffic management system or service.

SEC. 502. EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT DEMONSTRATIONS.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with industry and 
academia, shall conduct a study of past and future administration of 
the experimental aircraft demonstrator projects.
    (b) Future Demonstrations.--The study under subsection (a) shall 
identify systems, capabilities, and technologies that could be viable 
candidates for maturation and demonstration through the development of 
an experimental aircraft demonstrator. Such systems, capabilities, and 
technologies may include technological advancements related to 
structures, aerodynamics, propulsion, controls, and autonomous 
capabilities. The study shall include a description of criteria and 
performance metrics used to determine the readiness of a system, 
capability, or technology to be demonstrated on a future experimental 
aircraft demonstrator.
    (c) Lessons Learned.--The study under subsection (a) also shall 
include an assessment of lessons learned from the Administration's 
previous experimental aircraft demonstration projects over the last 
decade, including the projects set forth under section 10831 of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2022 
(Public Law 117-167). This assessment shall include--
            (1) a quantitative assessment of each experimental aircraft 
        demonstration project's ability to meet cost, schedule and 
        performance goals, as defined at the time of project 
        confirmation;
            (2) the extent to which the project's objectives or 
        performance goals were changed or descoped;
            (3) the extent to which the system, capability, or 
        technology that was the subject of the project was matured as a 
        result of its demonstration on an experimental aircraft 
        demonstrator; and
            (4) the extent to which the project has contributed to 
        advancing the capabilities of and innovation in the United 
        States aircraft and aviation industries.

SEC. 503. HYPERSONIC RESEARCH.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) basic and applied hypersonic research--
                    (A) is critical for enabling the development of 
                advanced high-speed aeronautical and space systems; and
                    (B) can improve understanding of technical 
                challenges related to high-speed and reusable vehicle 
                technologies, including those related to propulsion, 
                noise, advanced materials, and entry, descent, and 
                landing operations;
            (2) investments in hypersonic research are critical to 
        sustaining United States global leadership in space and 
        aeronautics; and
            (3) NASA efforts to study hypersonic research should 
        complement research supported by the Department of Defense and, 
        when appropriate, be conducted in partnership with universities 
        and industry.
    (b) Hypersonic Research.--The Administrator, in coordination with 
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration and the 
Secretary of the Department of Defense, and in consultation with 
industry and academia, shall continue to carry out basic and applied 
hypersonic research.
    (c) Hypersonic Research Roadmap.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation 
with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration and the 
Secretary of the Department of Defense, and with industry and academic 
institutions, shall update the hypersonic research roadmap required 
under section 603 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 51 U.S.C. 
20302 note). In updating the research roadmap, the Administrator may 
consider advancements in--
            (1) system level design, analysis, and validation of 
        hypersonic aircraft technologies;
            (2) propulsion capabilities and technologies;
            (3) vehicle technologies to include vehicle flow physics 
        and vehicle thermal management associated with aerodynamic 
        heating;
            (4) advanced materials, including materials capable of 
        withstanding high temperatures and demonstrating durable 
        materials, and efforts to create models and simulate use of 
        such materials; and
            (5) other areas of hypersonic research as determined 
        appropriate by the Administrator.
    (d) Report and Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall--
            (1) transmit the updated research roadmap under subsection 
        (c) to the appropriate committees of Congress; and
            (2) provide a briefing on the research conducted under 
        subsection (b), including how such research aligns with the 
        updated research roadmap under subsection (c).

SEC. 504. ADVANCED MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator shall transmit a report to the appropriate committees 
of Congress on the status of NASA activities relating to section 
10831(e), the Advanced Materials and Manufacturing Technology Program, 
and section 10831(f), regarding relevant Research Partnerships, as set 
forth in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167).

SEC. 505. UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM AND ADVANCED AIR MOBILITY.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that research and development related 
to autonomous aviation is vital to ensure United States competitiveness 
as the National Airspace System evolves from trajectory-based 
operations to collaborative and highly automated operations.
    (b) Collaboration.--The Administrator shall, in collaboration with 
the Administrator of Federal Aviation Administration, the heads of 
other relevant Federal agencies, and appropriate representatives of 
academia and industry, continue its research on unmanned aircraft 
systems and advanced air mobility, including research related to UTM 
and autonomous capabilities, as practicable.
    (c) Brief.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate 
committees of Congress on the progress of the research under subsection 
(b).

SEC. 506. ADVANCED CAPABILITIES FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE OPERATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall leverage NASA-developed 
tools and technologies to conduct research and development activities 
under the Advanced Capabilities for Emergency Response Operations 
(ACERO) project, or appropriate successor project or projects, to 
improve aerial responses to wildfires.
    (b) Goals.--The research and development activities conducted under 
subsection (a) may include the following:
            (1) Advanced aircraft technologies and airspace management 
        efforts to assist in the management, deconfliction, and 
        coordination of aerial assets during wildfire response efforts.
            (2) Information sharing and real-time data exchange for 
        wildfire response teams.
            (3) Development of an interoperable platform to provide 
        situational awareness of aerial assets during wildfire 
        response.
            (4) Establishment of a multi-agency concept of operations, 
        which may involve Federal, State, and local government 
        agencies, to enable coordination of aerial activities for 
        wildfire response.
    (c) Collaboration.--In carrying out this section, the 
Administrator--
            (1) may coordinate and collaborate with other Federal, 
        State, and local government agencies, regional organizations, 
        and commercial partners and academic institutions involved in 
        wildfire management; and
            (2) shall, to the maximum extent practicable, consult with 
        the heads of other Federal departments and agencies to avoid 
        duplication of activities.
    (d) Prohibition.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in this subsection, the 
        Administrator may not procure an unmanned aircraft system to 
        conduct activities described in this section if such unmanned 
        aircraft system is manufactured or assembled by a covered 
        foreign entity.
            (2) Exemption.--The Administrator may waive the prohibition 
        under paragraph (1) on a case-by-case basis if the 
        Administrator--
                    (A) determines that the procurement of an unmanned 
                aircraft system is--
                            (i) in the national interest of the United 
                        States; and
                            (ii) necessary for the sole purpose of 
                        improving aerial responses to wildfires; and
                    (B) notifies the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                Technology of the House of Representatives and the 
                Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
                the Senate not later than 30 days after a determination 
                in the affirmative under subparagraph (A).
    (e) Annual Reports.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and annually thereafter until December 31, 2029, 
the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space and 
Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report describing 
the activities, including results, carried out pursuant to this section 
2. Each such report, at minimum, shall contain the following:
            (1) A description of any research and development 
        activities.
            (2) A description of the Administrator's activities 
        pursuant to subsection (c).
            (3) An identification of any topics related to improvement 
        of aerial responses to wildfires that could benefit from 
        further research.
            (4) A description of any continuing efforts under this 
        section.
            (5) Any other information determined appropriate by the 
        Administrator.
    (f) Definition.--In this section:
            (1) Covered foreign entity.--The term ``covered foreign 
        entity'' has the meaning given such term in section 1832 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public 
        Law 118-31).
            (2) Unmanned aircraft system.--The term ``unmanned aircraft 
        system'' has the meaning given such term in section 44801 of 
        title 49, United States Code.

SEC. 507. HYDROGEN AVIATION.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the availability of appropriations for 
such purpose, and taking into consideration the strategy developed 
under and research conducted pursuant to section 1019 of the FAA 
Reauthorization Act of 2024 (Public Law 118-63), the Administrator may 
carry out research on emerging technologies related to hydrogen 
aviation.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings of the 
research under subsection (a).

SEC. 508. HIGH-PERFORMANCE CHASE AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA programs benefit from and rely upon high-
        performance chase aircraft for providing research and mission 
        support; and
            (2) NASA currently faces maintenance challenges related to 
        its aging high-performance aircraft fleet, which is resulting 
        in increased program costs.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and biannually thereafter, the Administrator 
shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress a briefing on 
the strategy of NASA relating to the following:
            (1) Collaboration with the Department of Defense on efforts 
        for research and flight asset sharing to support NASA's 
        research mission support and pilot training requirements.
            (2) Efforts to seek aircraft parts and engines to keep 
        NASA's current fleet of chase aircraft operational, including 
        potential use of 3D additive manufactured parts.
            (3) Strategies for acquiring or using through loan, 
        sharing, or other agreements, as appropriate, Department of 
        Defense aircraft to support NASA's research and mission support 
        activities, as required.

SEC. 509. COLLABORATION WITH ACADEMIA.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) colleges and universities are hubs of research and 
        innovation, with expertise in various fields of science and 
        aeronautics;
            (2) collaborating with academia allows NASA to access 
        cutting-edge research and expertise that can further enable 
        advancements in aeronautics research and technology and address 
        complex aeronautical challenges;
            (3) a cutting-edge civil aeronautics research and 
        development program can inspire the next generation to pursue 
        education and careers in science, technology, engineering, and 
        mathematics, including aeronautics; and
            (4) opportunities for students to participate in NASA-
        supported academic research and development projects, such as 
        the University Leadership Initiative, the University Students 
        Research Challenge, and related aeronautic projects and 
        competitions, contributes to training the next generation and 
        developing the aeronautics workforce to support continued 
        United States leadership and economic growth in civil 
        aeronautics and aviation.

SEC. 510. NATIONAL STUDENT UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS COMPETITION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall lead a national pilot 
program to carry out unmanned aircraft systems technology competitions 
for students at the high school and undergraduate level (in this 
section referred to as ``competitions'') in which students shall 
compete to design, create, and demonstrate an unmanned aircraft system.
    (b) Competition Administration.--The Administrator shall award, on 
a merit-reviewed, competitive basis, a grant to a nonprofit 
organization, an institution of higher education, or a consortium 
thereof, to administer the pilot program under subsection (a) (in this 
section referred to as the ``competition administrator'').
    (c) Award Criteria.--The Administrator shall ensure that the award 
decision made under subsection (b) take into account the extent to 
which the eligible entity--
            (1) identifies a plan for engaging eligible institutions 
        from diverse geographic areas, including poor, rural, and 
        Tribal communities; and
            (2) identifies a plan for connecting science, technology, 
        engineering, and medicine (STEM) activities to Administration 
        missions and centers.
    (d) Competition Administrator Responsibilities.--In carrying out 
the pilot program, the competition administrator shall be responsible 
for the following:
            (1) Awarding grants to institutions of higher education or 
        nonprofit organizations (or a consortium thereof) on a merit-
        reviewed, competitive basis to host individual competitions.
            (2) Developing STEM curriculum to be utilized by the 
        competition awardees to help students make the connection to 
        the design, construction, and demonstration of unmanned 
        aircraft systems.
            (3) Developing curriculum to assist students in making 
        real-world connections to STEM content and educate students on 
        the relevance and significance of STEM careers.
            (4) Ensuring competition awardees are supporting the 
        activities specified in subsection (f).
            (5) Conducting performance evaluations of competitions, 
        including data collection, on the following:
                    (A) The number of students engaged.
                    (B) Geographic and institutional diversity of 
                participating schools and institutions of higher 
                education.
            (6) Any other activities the Administrator finds necessary 
        to ensure the competitions are successful.
    (e) Additional Considerations.--In awarding grants in subsection 
(d), the competition administrator shall consider applications that 
include a partnership with that State's space grant program under 
chapter 403 of title 51, United States Code.
    (f) Permitted Activities.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
subsection (a), the competition administrator shall ensure competitions 
occurring at both the high school and undergraduate levels--
            (1) allow students to design, construct, and demonstrate an 
        unmanned aircraft system;
            (2) allow students to compete with other teams in the 
        performance of the constructed unmanned aircraft system;
            (3) connect to relevant missions and NASA Center activities 
        of the Administration;
            (4) connect relevant STEM curriculum to the design, 
        construction, and demonstration of unmanned aircraft systems;
            (5) support activities designed to help students make real-
        world connections to STEM content and educate students on the 
        relevance and significance of STEM careers;
            (6) are geographically dispersed in order to serve a broad 
        student population, including those in rural and underserved 
        communities; and
            (7) encourage, to the greatest extent practicable, the 
        participation of students from groups historically 
        underrepresented in STEM.
    (g) Report to Congress.--Not later than six months after the end of 
the pilot program under subsection (a), the Administrator shall submit 
to the appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the 
accomplishments, lessons learned, any challenges in the implementation 
of the pilot program, and recommendations for whether to continue the 
pilot program.
    (h) Definition.--In this section, the term ``eligible institution'' 
means--
            (1) an institution of higher education;
            (2) a nonprofit research institution;
            (3) a high school; or
            (4) a consortium of 2 or more entities described in any of 
        paragraphs (1) through (3).

SEC. 511. DECADAL SURVEY FOR NATIONAL AERONAUTICS RESEARCH AND 
              PRIORITIES REVIEW.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Engaging the science and engineering communities, along 
        with industry, through the development of a National Academies 
        of Science, Engineering, and Medicine decadal survey in 
        aeronautics research and development can provide a science and 
        engineering community consensus on key research and development 
        priorities in national civil aeronautics programs.
            (2) A decadal survey entails a comprehensive review of and 
        strategy and priorities for civil national aeronautics research 
        and development and prioritizes for the next decade.
            (3) A decadal survey for civil aeronautics research and 
        development can serve as a guiding framework for strategic 
        planning and resource allocation in the field of civil 
        aeronautics for the coming decade.
    (b) Study.--The Administrator in consultation with the heads of 
other relevant Federal Government agencies and in accordance with 
section 20305 of title 51. United States Code, shall seek to enter into 
an arrangement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, 
and Medicine (in this section referred to as the ``National 
Academies'') to conduct a decadal survey of civil aeronautics research 
and development for the 2025--2035 decade. The survey shall recommend 
research priorities to sustain United States leadership in civil 
aeronautics research and development and support a safe and sustainable 
future for aviation. The survey may also include recommendations 
related to the dissemination and transition of such research and 
development to the United States commercial aviation and aircraft 
industries, to enabling innovation, and to ensuring a world-class 
workforce for aeronautics research and development and related United 
States commercial industries and activities.
    (c) Transmittal.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
the results of such survey, including any recommendations.

SEC. 512. MAKING ADVANCEMENTS IN COMMERCIAL HYPERSONICS.

    (a) In General.--In conducting the hypersonics research in section 
40112(d) of title 51, United States Code, the Administrator may 
establish the Making Advancements in Commercial Hypersonics Program (in 
this section referred to as the ``Program''), which shall facilitate 
opportunities for testing of high-speed aircraft and other technologies 
that advance scientific research and technology development related to 
hypersonic aircraft.
    (b) Limitation.--The Program under subsection (a) shall not fund 
the development of technologies that are supported by such testing 
opportunities.
    (c) Plan.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator, acting through the Aeronautics Research 
Mission Directorate, shall develop a strategic plan for activities 
under subsection (a) that aligns with the research roadmap under 
section 503 of this Act.
    (d) Coordination, Consultation and Collaboration.--
            (1) The Administrator shall ensure coordination between the 
        Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate and other Mission 
        Directorates, as appropriate, to identify technologies eligible 
        for testing opportunities under the Program.
            (2) The Administrator shall consult and seek to collaborate 
        with, as appropriate, with the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration on 
        activities related to the Program, including development, 
        testing, and evaluation of high-speed aircraft and related 
        technologies.
    (e) Report.--The Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress, and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
Senate--
            (1) not later than 80 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this section, a report that--
                    (A) describes activities of the program established 
                under subsection (a); and
                    (B) includes the strategic plan produced under 
                subsection (c); and
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, and annually thereafter, a report describing 
        progress in carrying out the program, including the number and 
        type of testing opportunities executed in the previous fiscal 
        year and planned for the upcoming fiscal year.
    (f) Research Security.--Nothing under this section authorizes the 
Administrator to develop, implement, or execute an agreement related to 
technologies under this section with any entity of concern, a foreign 
business entity, or a foreign country of concern.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) Entity of concern.--the term ``entity of concern'' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 10114 of the Research 
        and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act (Public Law 
        117-167; 42 U.S.C. 18912).
            (2) Foreign business entity.--The term ``foreign business 
        entity'' means an entity that is majority-owned or majority-
        controlled (as such term is defined in section 800.208 of title 
        31, Code of Federal Regulations, or a successor regulation), or 
        minority owned greater than 25 percent by--
                    (A) any governmental organization of a foreign 
                country of concern; or
                    (B) any other entity that is--
                            (i) known to be owned or controlled by any 
                        governmental organization of a foreign country 
                        of concern; or
                            (ii) organized under, or otherwise subject 
                        to, the laws of a foreign country of concern.
            (3) Foreign country of concern.--The term ``foreign country 
        of concern'' has the meaning given such term in section 9901 of 
        title XCIX of division H of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (15 
        U.S.C. 4651).
            (4) High-speed aircraft.--The term ``high-speed aircraft'' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 1009 of the Federal 
        Aviation Reauthorization Act of 2024 (Public Law 118-63).

                           TITLE VI--SCIENCE

SEC. 601. MAINTAINING A BALANCED SCIENCE PORTFOLIO.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--Congress reaffirms the sense of Congress 
that--
            (1) a balanced and adequately funded set of activities 
        consisting of research and analysis grant programs, technology 
        development, suborbital research activities, and small, medium, 
        and large space missions, contributes to a robust and 
        productive science program and serves as a catalyst for 
        innovation and discovery; and
            (2) the Administrator should set science priorities by 
        following the recommendations and guidance provided by the 
        scientific community through the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine decadal surveys.
    (b) Policy Reaffirmation.--Congress reaffirms the policy of the 
United States set forth in section 501(c) of the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (Public 
Law 115-10; 51 U.S.C. 20302 note), which states, ``It is the policy of 
the United States to ensure, to the extent practicable, a steady 
cadence of large, medium, and small science missions''.

SEC. 602. IMPLEMENTATION OF SCIENCE MISSION COST-CAPS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA science missions address compelling scientific 
        questions prioritized by the National Academies decadal 
        surveys, and often such missions exceed expectations in terms 
        of performance, longevity, and scientific impact;
            (2) the Administrator should continue to pursue an 
        ambitious science program while also seeking to avoid excessive 
        cost growth that has the potential to affect the balance across 
        the Science portfolio and within the Science Divisions;
            (3) audits by the NASA Inspector General and the Government 
        Accountability Office have reported that early cost estimates 
        for missions in the preliminary phases of conception and 
        development are immature and unreliable, and the cost of a 
        mission typically is not well-understood until the project is 
        further along in the development process;
            (4) cost growth of a mission beyond its early cost 
        estimates is a challenge for budget planning and has the 
        potential to affect other missions in the Science Mission 
        Directorate portfolio, including through delays to future 
        mission solicitations; and
            (5) relying on early cost estimates made prior to 
        preliminary design review for science missions which then 
        experience such cost growth may disincentivize program and cost 
        discipline moving forward.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 12 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall transmit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a review of NASA practices related 
to establishment of and compliance with cost caps of competitively-
selected, principal investigator-led science missions. The review 
shall--
            (1) assess current cost cap values and determine whether 
        existing cost-cap amounts are appropriate for different classes 
        of missions;
            (2) consider the effectiveness of cost caps in maintaining 
        a varied and balanced portfolio of mission types within the 
        Science Mission Directorate;
            (3) describe the information NASA requires as part of a 
        proposal submission related to project cost estimates and 
        proposal compliance with cost caps, and assess whether such 
        required information provides sufficient insight or confidence 
        in the estimates;
            (4) consider NASA processes for assessing proposed cost 
        estimates and the accuracy of such assessments for past 
        competitively-selected, principal investigator-led science 
        missions; and
            (5) for the period starting on January 1, 2000 and ending 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act--
                    (A) a list of--
                            (i) competitively-selected, principal 
                        investigator-led science missions for which 
                        costs have exceeded the associated cost cap; 
                        and
                            (ii) reason the mission costs exceeded the 
                        cost-cap;
                    (B) an assessment of NASA's role in predicting, 
                preventing, or managing competitively-selected, 
                principal investigator-led science mission cost 
                increases; and
                    (C) a description of the impact of increased 
                competitively-selected, principal investigator-led 
                science mission costs beyond the cost caps on--
                            (i) the missions for which the cost cap has 
                        been breached; and
                            (ii) other missions within the applicable 
                        division and within the Science Mission 
                        Directorate.

SEC. 603. REEXAMINATION OF DECADAL SURVEYS.

    Title 51, United States Code, is amended in section 20305(c) by 
inserting ``, significant changes to the NASA budget'' after 
``growth''.

SEC. 604. LANDSAT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator shall transmit a report to the appropriate committees 
of Congress describing--
            (1) the Administrator's efforts to comply with section 
        60134 of title 51, United States Code;
            (2) aspects of Landsat NEXT or any other Landsat 
        observations that--
                    (A) could be provided by private sector data-buys 
                or service procurements; and
                    (B) could--
                            (i) meet associated science requirements 
                        while maintaining or exceeding the quality, 
                        integrity, and continuity of the Landsat 
                        observational capabilities and performance, 
                        including requirements necessary to ensure 
                        high-quality calibrated data continuity and 
                        traceability with the 50-year Landsat data 
                        record; and
                            (ii) comply with nondiscriminatory 
                        availability of unenhanced data and public 
                        archiving of data pursuant to section 60141 and 
                        60142 of title 51, United States Code, and all 
                        other relevant federal laws, regulations, and 
                        policies related to open science and data 
                        accessibility;
            (3) any potential tradeoffs or other impacts of 
        subparagraphs (A) or (B) that could reduce the benefit of 
        Landsat data for scientific and applied uses or reduce the 
        Federal Government's ability to make such data available for 
        the widest possible use; and
            (4) recommendations and opportunities for the Federal 
        Government to mitigate potential tradeoffs or impacts 
        identified under paragraph (3) or to otherwise facilitate 
        private sector data-buys or service procurements.

SEC. 605. PRIVATE EARTH OBSERVATION DATA.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 702 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18371) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Director of OSTP'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Director of OSTP''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Considerations.--In updating the civil Earth observation 
strategic implementation plan pursuant to subsection (a), the Director 
of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall consider 
commercial Earth observation data, as appropriate, that can be 
purchased or accessed by the Federal Government to meet Earth 
observation requirements.''.
    (b) Government Accountability Office Report.--Not later than 12 
months after the release of the next civil Earth observation strategic 
implementation plan update under section 702(a) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18371(a)), the Comptroller General shall report to the 
appropriate committees of Congress an assessment of the Director of the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy's implementation of section 
702(b) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18371(b)), as amended.

SEC. 606. COMMERCIAL SATELLITE DATA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Section 60501 of title 51, United States Code, states 
        that the goal for the Earth Science program of NASA shall be to 
        pursue a program of Earth observations, research, and 
        applications activities to better understand the Earth, how it 
        supports life, and how human activities affect its ability to 
        do so in the future.
            (2) Section 50115 of title 51, United States Code, states 
        that the Administrator of NASA shall, to the extent possible 
        and while satisfying the scientific or educational requirements 
        of NASA, and where appropriate, of other Federal agencies and 
        scientific researchers, acquire, where cost effective, space-
        based and airborne commercial Earth remote sensing data, 
        services, distribution, and applications from a commercial 
        provider.
            (3) The Administrator of NASA established the Commercial 
        SmallSat Data Acquisition Pilot Program in 2019 to identify, 
        validate, and acquire from commercial sources data that support 
        the Earth science research and application goals.
            (4) The Administrator of NASA has--
                    (A) determined that the pilot program described in 
                paragraph (3) has been a success, as described in the 
                final evaluation entitled ``Commercial SmallSat Data 
                Acquisition Program Pilot Evaluation Report'' issued in 
                2020;
                    (B) established a formal process for evaluating and 
                onboarding new commercial vendors in such pilot 
                program;
                    (C) increased the number of commercial vendors and 
                commercial data products available through such pilot 
                program; and
                    (D) expanded procurement arrangements with 
                commercial vendors to broaden user access to provide 
                commercial Earth remote sensing data and imagery to 
                federally funded researchers.
    (b) Commercial Satellite Data Acquisition Program.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 603 of title 51, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 60307. Commercial satellite data acquisition program
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator shall establish within the 
Earth Science Division of the Science Mission Directorate a program to 
acquire and disseminate cost-effective and appropriate commercial Earth 
remote sensing data and imagery in order to satisfy the scientific, 
operational, and educational requirements of the Administration, and 
where appropriate, of other Federal agencies and scientific researchers 
to augment or complement the suite of Earth observations acquired by 
the Administration, other United States Government agencies, and 
international partners.
    ``(b) Data Publication and Transparency.--The terms and conditions 
of commercial Earth remote sensing data and imagery acquisitions under 
the program described in subsection (a) shall not prevent--
            ``(1) the publication of commercial data or imagery for 
        scientific purposes; or
            ``(2) the publication of information that is derived from, 
        incorporates, or enhances the original commercial data or 
        imagery of a vendor.
    ``(c) Authorization.--In carrying out the program under this 
section, the Administrator may--
            ``(1) procure the commercial Earth remote sensing data and 
        imagery from commercial vendors to advance scientific research 
        and applications in accordance with subsection (a); and
            ``(2) establish or modify end-use license terms and 
        conditions to allow for the widest-possible use of procured 
        commercial Earth remote sensing data and imagery by individuals 
        other than NASA-funded users, consistent with the goals of the 
        program.
    ``(d) United States Vendors.--Commercial Earth remote sensing data 
and imagery referred to in subsections (a) and (c) shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, be procured from United States vendors.
    ``(e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section and annually thereafter, the Administrator 
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
the House of Representatives a report that includes the following 
information regarding the agreements, vendors, license terms, and uses 
of commercial Earth remote sensing data and imagery under this section:
            ``(1)(A) In the case of the initial report, a list of all 
        agreements that are providing commercial Earth remote sensing 
        data and imagery to NASA as of the date of the report.
            ``(B) For each subsequent report, a list of all agreements 
        that have provided commercial Earth remote sensing data and 
        imagery to NASA during the reporting period.
            ``(2) A description of the end-use license terms and 
        conditions for each such vendor.
            ``(3) A description of the manner in which each such 
        agreement is advancing scientific research and applications, 
        including priorities recommended by the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine decadal surveys.
            ``(4) Information specifying whether the Administrator has 
        entered into an agreement with a commercial vendor or a Federal 
        agency that permits the use of data and imagery by Federal 
        Government employees, contractors, or non-Federal users.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for chapter 
        603 of title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``60307. Commercial Satellite Data Acquisition Program.''.

SEC. 607. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION MEASUREMENTS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) observation and measurement of greenhouse gases such as 
        carbon dioxide and methane are of critical importance to 
        understand the sources of these emissions;
            (2) additional tools can improve the precise detection of 
        methane leaks from natural gas lines and production facilities 
        to reduce economic losses and to reduce unintentional release 
        of this potent greenhouse gas;
            (3) observation of such gases can be conducted with a 
        combination of space-based, airborne, and ground-based 
        instruments;
            (4) in 2022, NASA cancelled the Geostationary Carbon Cycle 
        Observatory, a competitively-selected, Principal Investigator-
        led instrument under development that is designed to make 
        space-based observations of greenhouse gases, including carbon 
        dioxide, carbon monoxide, and methane, as well as vegetation 
        health over the western hemisphere from geosynchronous orbit; 
        and
            (5) in 2023, the Geostationary Carbon Cycle Observatory PI-
        led project team delivered an unvalidated instrument assembly 
        and flight spares to NASA as part of the project closeout 
        activities.
    (b) Hardware.--
            (1) The Administrator shall assess the hardware and, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, seek to validate the instrument 
        assembly delivered to the Administration under the contract for 
        the development of GeoCarb, which shall include an assessment 
        of scientific capabilities of the delivered hardware, including 
        potential repurposed uses or science contributions.
            (2) The Administrator, within 6 months of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, shall provide a report to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress regarding the results of the 
        assessment conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) and if 
        appropriate based on the assessment, a list of potential launch 
        opportunities, including cost and schedule associated with such 
        opportunities.
    (c) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation 
        with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology, and other 
        relevant agencies, shall enter into an agreement with the 
        National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to 
        develop a science-based strategy to assess and evaluate the use 
        of present and future greenhouse gas monitoring and detection 
        capabilities, including ground-based, airborne, and space-based 
        sensors and integration of data relating to such monitoring and 
        detection from other indicators, to detect large methane 
        emission events (commonly referred to as ``methane super-
        emitters'').
            (2) Requirements.--The strategy described in subsection (a) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) Development of a proposed definition for the 
                term ``methane super-emitter''.
                    (B) Examination of whether and how current and 
                planned Federal greenhouse gas monitoring and detection 
                capabilities may be leveraged to monitor and detect 
                methane super-emitters, and identify key gaps in such 
                capabilities.
                    (C) Examination of the effectiveness of the U.S. 
                Greenhouse Gas Center and Greenhouse Gas Monitoring and 
                Measurement Interagency Working Group in facilitating 
                interagency collaboration for greenhouse gas monitoring 
                and detection, data standards, stewardship, and data 
                integration, including activities related to monitoring 
                and detecting methane super-emitters.
                    (D) Examination of actions taken by Federal 
                agencies and departments in response to the National 
                Strategy to Advance an Integrated U.S. Greenhouse Gas 
                Measurement, Monitoring, and Information System, 
                including progress towards pathways to enhance the 
                scientific and operational value of information 
                regarding methane super-emitters.
                    (E) Consideration of options for the Federal 
                Government to partner with nongovernmental entities, 
                including State and local governments, academia, 
                nonprofit organizations, commercial industry, and 
                international organizations, to effectively leverage 
                greenhouse gas monitoring and detection capabilities to 
                monitor and detect methane super-emitters.
                    (F) Consideration of options for the Federal 
                Government to validate and verify technologies and data 
                developed or collects by nongovernmental entities, 
                academia, nonprofit organizations, commercial industry, 
                and international organizations related to monitoring 
                and detecting methane super-emitters.
                    (G) Recommendations regarding the activities under 
                subparagraphs (A) through (F), as appropriate.
    (d) Use of Strategy.--The Administrator may use the strategy 
described in subsection (a) to inform the planning of research and 
development activities regarding greenhouse gas monitoring and 
detection, including methane super-emitters.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
execution of the agreement between the Administrator and the National 
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine under subsection (a), 
the National Academies shall submit to the Administrator, the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report on the strategy described in subsection (a).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Greenhouse gas monitoring and detection.--The term 
        ``greenhouse gas monitoring and detection'' means the direct 
        observation, from space or in-situ, or collection of 
        measurement data pertaining to, greenhouse gas emissions and 
        levels.
            (2) Geocarb.--The term ``GeoCarb'' shall mean the 
        Geostationary Carbon Cycle Observatory.

SEC. 608. NASA DATA FOR AGRICULTURAL APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) NASA has decades of experience in space-based 
        scientific Earth observations and measurements, including data, 
        trends and modeling.
            (2) NASA Earth science data, which includes data on 
        precipitation, temperature, evapotranspiration, soil moisture, 
        and vegetation health, has been used to inform the 
        decisionmaking of agricultural producers.
            (3) NASA applies its scientific data and models to inform 
        and support the agricultural community and engages in 
        innovative collaborations such as the NASA Acres and NASA 
        Harvest agricultural consortia.
            (4) NASA uses space-based Earth observations and science 
        and applications to support farmers in efforts to conserve 
        water and other resources, improve farm management and crop 
        yield, and facilitate the stability of the national food 
        supply.
            (5) NASA's upcoming Earth System Observatory will benefit 
        the agricultural community by improving observations critical 
        for measuring and understanding cropland conditions, water 
        availability, early onset crop disease, soil moisture, and 
        other crop and rangeland management indicators.
            (6) Increased engagement between NASA and the agricultural 
        community can support agricultural producers, bolster the 
        national food supply, and improve agricultural research, 
        science, and technology.
    (b) Data Dissemination.--NASA shall continue to partner with other 
relevant Federal agencies, as practicable, to disseminate water, soil, 
vegetation, land-use, and other relevant NASA Earth observation and 
science data, information and tools to support American agricultural 
producers. Such partnerships may include activities such as--
            (1) continuing the leverage NASA Earth science water data 
        and information to enable efficient use of resources, inform 
        irrigation decisions, and support local innovation and control 
        of water management;
            (2) supporting agriculture decisionmaking by increasing the 
        accessibility and useability of NASA Earth science data, 
        information, and tools relevant to the impact of disease, 
        weather, precipitation, and other environmental factors on 
        agricultural production; or
            (3) making available, to the greatest extent practicable, 
        NASA earth science measurements and data to advance precision 
        agricultural capabilities relevant to the needs and 
        requirements of agricultural producers.
    (c) Application of Space-based Data.--The Administrator shall, in 
furtherance of the goal for the NASA's Earth science and applications 
program of securing practical benefits for society, as set forth in 
section 60501 of title 51, United States Code, continue to collaborate 
with relevant Federal agencies to develop mechanisms to transition, as 
appropriate, relevant NASA Earth science research findings, data, 
information, models, and capabilities to operational governmental and 
private sector entities focused on addressing the needs of the 
agricultural user community.
    (d) Partnering.--In carrying out subsections (b) and (d), NASA 
shall, to the extent practicable and in collaboration with other 
relevant Federal agencies, where appropriate, continue to engage State 
and local government agencies, institutions of higher education, 
agriculture producer organizations, and other relevant stakeholder and 
user communities from the public and private sectors to improve 
dissemination of NASA Earth science data, information, and tools 
relevant to the needs of agricultural producers and the agriculture 
industry, in accordance with the goal for the Administration's Earth 
science and applications program set forth in section 60501 of title 
51, United States Code, and relevant recommendations of the most recent 
decadal survey on Earth science and applications from space.

SEC. 609. PLANETARY SCIENCE PORTFOLIO.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) planetary science missions advance the scientific 
        understanding of the solar system and the place of humans in it 
        while also advancing the design and operations of spacecraft 
        and robotic engineering; and
            (2) Discovery, New Frontiers, and Flagship programs allow 
        NASA to fund a range of missions that vary in size, cost, and 
        complexity; maintaining balance across these mission classes 
        allows for a broad scope of discoveries and scientific 
        advances.
    (b) Mission Priorities Reaffirmation.--Congress reaffirms the 
direction in section 502(b)(1) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 
51 U.S.C. 20302 note) that--
            (1) in accordance with the priorities established in the 
        most recent Planetary Science Decadal Survey, The Administrator 
        shall ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, the 
        completion of a balanced set of Discovery, New Frontiers, and 
        Flagship missions at the cadence recommended by the most recent 
        Planetary Science Decadal Survey; and
            (2) consistent with the set of missions described in 
        paragraph (1), and while maintaining the continuity of 
        scientific data and steady development of capabilities and 
        technologies, the Administrator may seek, if necessary, 
        adjustments to mission priorities, schedule, and scope in light 
        of changing budget projections.

SEC. 610. PLANETARY DEFENSE.

    (a) Section 808 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18387), is amended 
in subsection (b) by striking ``implement, before September 30, 2012,'' 
and inserting ``, in coordination with the NASA Administrator, maintain 
and regularly update''.
    (b) Title 51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 71103--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking 
                ``Developing policy and recommending'' and inserting 
                ``Policy on near-Earth objects and''
                    (B) by striking ``Within 2 years after October 15, 
                2008, the'' and inserting ``The'';
                    (C) after ``Policy shall'', by inserting ``, in 
                coordination with the Administrator, maintain and 
                regularly update'';
                    (D) by striking ``(1) develop''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(2) recommend'' 
                and inserting ``recommendations for''; and
            (2) in chapter 711--
                    (A) by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 71105. Planetary defense coordination office
    ``(a) Office.--As directed in section 10825 of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2022 (Public 
Law 117-167), the Administrator shall maintain an office within the 
Planetary Science Division of the Science Mission Directorate to be 
known as the `Planetary Defense Coordination Office'.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--Consistent with the direction in section 
10825 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167) the Planetary Defense 
Coordination Office under subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) plan, develop, and implement a program to survey 
        threats posed by near-Earth objects equal to or grater than 140 
        meters in diameter, as required by section 321(d)(1) of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2005 (Public Law 109-155; 119 Stat. 2922; 51 U.S.C. 71101 
        note prec.);
            ``(2) identify, track, and characterize potentially 
        hazardous near-Earth objects, issue warnings of the effects of 
        potential impacts of such objects, and investigate strategies 
        and technologies for mitigating the potential impacts of such 
        objects; and
            ``(3) assist in coordinating government planning for a 
        response to a potential impact of a near-Earth objects.''; and
                    (B) in the table of contents--
                            (i) by adding at the end the following new 
                        item:

``71105. Planetary Defense Coordination Office.''; and
                            (ii) by amending the item relating to 
                        section 71103 to read as follows:

``71103. Policy on near-Earth objects and responsible Federal 
                            agency.''.

SEC. 611. LUNAR DISCOVERY AND EXPLORATION.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator may carry out, within the 
Science Mission Directorate, a program to accomplish science objectives 
for the Moon, with an organizational structure that aligns 
responsibility, authority, and accountability, as recommended by the 
most recent decadal survey for planetary science and astrobiology.
    (b) Objectives and Requirements.--In carrying out the program in 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall direct the Science Mission 
Directorate, in consultation with the Exploration Systems Development 
Mission Directorate and the Space Technology Mission Directorate, to 
define high-priority lunar science objectives informed by decadal and 
other scientific consensus recommendations, and related requirements of 
an integrated Artemis science strategy for human and robotic missions 
to the Moon.
    (c) Instrumentation.--The program in subsection (a) should assess 
the need for and facilitate the development of instrumentation to 
support the scientific exploration of the Moon.

SEC. 612. COMMERCIAL LUNAR PAYLOAD SERVICES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Administrator's encouragement and support for 
        commercial services for lunar surface delivery capabilities and 
        other related services serves the national interest; and
            (2) commercial providers benefit from an approach that 
        places low-cost, noncritical instruments on initial deliveries 
        using small- and medium-size landers before proceeding to 
        larger landers for more complex payloads.
    (b) Commercial Lunar Payload Services.--The Administrator is 
authorized to establish a Commercial Lunar Payload Services program for 
the purposes of procuring, from one or more United States commercial 
providers, services for delivery of NASA science payloads, and the 
payloads of other NASA mission directorates, as appropriate and 
practicable, to the lunar surface.
    (c) Relationship to Other Mission Directorates.--A Mission 
Directorate that seeks to obtain commercial lunar payload services 
under the program established in subsection (b) shall provide funding 
for--
            (1) any payload, instrument or other item sponsored by the 
        Mission Directorate for delivery through the program; and
            (2) the cost of the commercial lunar payload services 
        obtained on behalf of the Mission Directorate.
    (d) Implementation.--In implementing any such activities pursuant 
to subsection (b), the Administrator shall--
            (1) conduct updated market research on the commercial lunar 
        economy and identify any changes since the last market 
        analysis;
            (2) assess NASA's needs from and role in and contribution 
        to the commercial lunar delivery market;
            (3) based on such needs identified in paragraph (2), assess 
        the effectiveness of the task order approach in advancing 
        commercial development of lunar delivery services, including an 
        assessment of the appropriate number of providers necessary to 
        support NASA commercial lunar delivery needs, and identify any 
        challenges and recommendations for improvement; and
            (4) strengthen procedures related to the selection, 
        manifesting, interfaces, and requirements of payloads and other 
        relevant factors that could contribute to minimizing future 
        NASA-directed changes to projects following commercial lunar 
        payload service contract awards.
    (e) Management Plan.--Not later than 90 days from the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall, informed by the 
activities conducted under subsection (c), prepare and implement a 
management plan with clear leadership authority and responsibility for 
the program authorized in subsection (b).
    (f) Briefings.--Not later than 180 days from the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate 
committees of Congress on the implementation of the management plan in 
subsection (d).
    (g) Coordination.--The Administrator shall ensure coordination 
between Mission Directorates and the Moon to Mars Program on the 
administration of the program in subsection (b) to ensure alignment of 
goals for lunar delivery services.

SEC. 613. PLANETARY AND LUNAR OPERATIONS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) existing NASA lunar and Martian orbital missions are 
        operating well beyond their planned mission lifespans;
            (2) NASA relies on this aging infrastructure for 
        observations, communications relay, and other operations to 
        support critical NASA missions; and
            (3) the United States plans to increase its activities on 
        and around both the Moon and Mars in coming years.
    (b) Plan.--The Administrator shall develop a plan to ensure 
continuity of operations and sufficient observational and operational 
capabilities on and around the Moon and Mars necessary to continue to 
enable a robust science program and human exploration program for the 
Moon and Mars well into the future. Such plan shall consider 
opportunities to engage both private and international partners in 
future operations.

SEC. 614. MARS SAMPLE RETURN.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall, subject to the 
availability of appropriations, lead a Mars Sample Return program to 
enable the return to Earth of scientifically-selected samples from the 
surface of Mars for study in terrestrial laboratories, consistent with 
the recommendations of the National Academies decadal surveys for 
planetary science.
    (b) Approach.--The Administrator shall pursue the program in 
subsection (a) on a timeline and in a manner necessary to--
            (1) Sustain United States leadership in the scientific 
        exploration of Mars;
            (2) maintain NASA capabilities to land and operate robotic 
        spacecraft on the surface of Mars;
            (3) preserve the relevant unique and long-term 
        institutional expertise; and
            (4) maintain a balanced and robust planetary science 
        division portfolio without requiring significant increases to 
        the NASA budget.
    (c) Implementation Plan.--The Administrator shall, as soon as 
practicable and no later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, transmit to the appropriate committees of Congress a plan and 
timeline for the implementation of a Mars Sample Return program 
pursuant to this section with the goal of enabling the highest 
scientific return for the resources invested. Such plan shall include a 
design and mission architecture and establish realistic cost and 
schedule estimates to enable such goal.

SEC. 615. HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE SERVICING.

    Not later than 90 days from the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator shall submit a report to the appropriate committees 
of Congress that includes the results of any study or studies conducted 
in the last five years regarding the technical feasibility of safely 
reboosting the Hubble Space Telescope, including any such studies 
regarding the technical feasibility of using private sector 
capabilities.

SEC. 616. GREAT OBSERVATORIES MISSION AND TECHNOLOGY MATURATION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator may establish a Great 
Observatories Mission and Technology Maturation project (referred to in 
this section as a ``Project'') to mature the large-scale space-based 
mission concepts and technologies needed for a future astrophysics 
mission, as informed by the recommendations of the most recent decadal 
survey in astronomy and astrophysics.
    (b) Activities.--A project established under subsection (b) shall 
inform the design and development of future large-scale space-based 
Astrophysics missions by conducting activities which may include--
            (1) assessing the appropriate scope for any future mission;
            (2) determining the range of capabilities and technology 
        readiness of such capabilities needed for a mission; and
            (3) informing the development and maturation of science and 
        technologies needed for such mission.
    (c) Costs.--The independent life-cycle cost estimate conducted 
under section 30307 of title 51, United States Code, as amended by this 
Act, for a large-scale space-based mission resulting from successful 
completion of a Project established under subsection (b) shall include 
an accounting of all costs spent on maturation of the mission through 
such Project.
    (d) Report.--Starting on February 1, 2025, and continuing annually 
thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the progress and impacts of any 
Projects established under subsection (b) within Astrophysics programs.

SEC. 617. NANCY GRACE ROMAN TELESCOPE.

    The Administrator shall continue development of the Nancy Grace 
Roman Space Telescope as directed in subsection 10823(b) of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2022 
(Public Law 117-167).

SEC. 618. CHANDRA X-RAY OBSERVATORY.

    The Administrator shall, to the greatest extent practicable, take 
no action to reduce or otherwise preclude continuation of the science 
operations of the Chandra X-Ray Telescope prior to the completion and 
consideration of the next triennial review of mission extensions for 
the Astrophysics division conducted pursuant to section 30504 of title 
51, United States Code and NASA's ongoing operations paradigm change 
review.

SEC. 619. HELIOPHYSICS RESEARCH.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA heliophysics research advances the scientific 
        understanding of the Sun, its impact on the Earth and near-
        Earth environment, and the Sun's interactions with other bodies 
        in the solar system, the interplanetary medium, and the 
        interstellar medium;
            (2) fundamental science supported by the Heliophysics 
        division is critical to improving space weather observations 
        forecasting capabilities, which contribute to--
                    (A) fortifying national security and other 
                critically important space-based and ground-based 
                assets;
                    (B) improving the resilience of the Nation's energy 
                infrastructure; and
                    (C) protecting human health in space; and
            (3) the Heliophysics Division should continue to maximize 
        the scientific return on investment of its portfolio through 
        maintaining a balanced portfolio that includes research and 
        analysis, including multidisciplinary research initiatives, 
        technology development, space-based missions and suborbital 
        flight projects that include both directed and strategic 
        missions and principal investigator-led, competitively 
        solicited missions, informed by the science priorities and 
        guidance of the most recent decadal survey in solar and space 
        physics.
    (b) Program Management.--The Administrator shall seek to--
            (1) maintain a regular Explorer Announcement of Opportunity 
        cadence and alternate between small and mid-sized missions; and
            (2) enable a regular selection of Missions of Opportunity.

SEC. 620. STUDY ON COMMERCIAL SPACE WEATHER DATA.

    (a) Study.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
shall conduct a study of the extent to which commercially-available 
data could advance space weather research, including the relevant space 
weather research priorities of the most recent decadal survey on solar 
and space physics.
    (b) Contents.--The study shall include--
            (1) an assessment of commercial capabilities and commercial 
        data that meets or exceeds the science and technical standards 
        and requirements of the Administration, which may include--
                    (A) data that is generated or able to be generated 
                by commercial providers;
                    (B) commercially-available small spacecraft;
                    (C) opportunities for hosted NASA payloads on 
                commercial spacecraft; and
                    (D) commercial solutions for data processing 
                applicable to space weather science;
            (2) recommendations and opportunities for the Federal 
        Government to facilitate the use of commercially available 
        options for space weather data relevant to advancing the 
        Administration's space weather research and development 
        activities consistent with the most recent National Academies 
        decadal survey, without reducing quality of data; and
            (3) options, where appropriate, for potential partnerships 
        or use of NASA prize authority and competitions, as appropriate 
        and practicable, to obtain access to such data identified in 
        paragraph (1) that--
                    (A) meets or exceeds the science and technical 
                standards and requirements of the Administration; and
                    (B) are not duplicative of activities conducted 
                pursuant to chapter 606 of title 51, United States 
                Code.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator shall transmit a report to the appropriate 
committees of Congress containing the results of the study provided 
under subsection (a).

SEC. 621. GEOSPACE DYNAMICS CONSTELLATION.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Geospace Dynamics Constellation mission could enable scientific 
discoveries that will transform understanding of the processes that 
govern the dynamics of the Earth's upper atmospheric envelope that 
surrounds and protects the planet.
    (b) Assessment.--Not later than September 5, 2024, The 
Administrator shall transmit to the appropriate committees of Congress 
a report regarding the schedule and budget profile to launch the 
Geospace Dynamics Constellation mission by the end of the decade to 
fulfill the recommendations of the heliophysics decadal survey.

SEC. 622. TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT FOR WILDLAND FIRE SCIENCE, MANAGEMENT, 
              AND MITIGATION.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator, acting through the Associate 
Director of the Earth Science Division for Earth Action, shall 
establish a project for science and technology development for wildland 
fire management and mitigation (referred to in this section as 
``FireSense'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of FireSense is to co-develop, deploy, 
and support NASA's application of advanced science, data, and 
technology capabilities to enable measurable improvement in United 
States wildland fire management and mitigation across the fire cycle, 
including pre-fire, active fire, and post-fire phases.
    (c) Objectives.--In establishing FireSense, the Administrator shall 
seek input from relevant stakeholders and shall align FireSense with 
the goal for NASA's Earth science and applications program set forth in 
section 60501 of title 51, United States Code, consider relevant 
recommendations of the most recent decadal survey on Earth science and 
applications from space, and shall, to the extent practicable, focus on 
the following objectives:
            (1) Enhanced predictive modeling and early warning systems 
        for wildland fire detection and prevention.
            (2) Developing remote sensing technologies and data 
        analysis tools to monitor fire-prone areas.
            (3) Transitioning wildland fire management technologies to 
        operational users, including agencies, private sector entities, 
        and academic institutions.
            (4) Conducting research to understand the impacts of 
        climate change on wildland fire frequency and intensity.
            (5) Supporting post-fire recovery and ecosystem restoration 
        through advanced technologies and data.
            (6) Providing necessary technical assistance to operational 
        users to receive, process, and make use of wildland fire 
        science, data, and technology resources.
            (7) Any additional objectives as determined necessary by 
        the Administrator to satisfy the purpose described in 
        subsection (b).
    (d) Interagency Coordination.--In implementing FireSense, the 
Administrator shall, as practicable and appropriate, coordinate with 
relevant Federal, State, and local agencies to support wildland fire 
science, data, and technology development activities across all phases 
of the fire cycle, including prevention, detection, response, and 
recovery.
    (e) Operational Support.--The Administrator shall, to the extent 
practicable and in collaboration with other relevant Federal agencies, 
continue to provide necessary scientific and technical support to 
enhance wildland fire mitigation efforts to operational users, 
including the following:
            (1) Relevant Federal agencies, as determined appropriate by 
        the Administrator.
            (2) State, local, and Tribal governments and organizations.
            (3) Private sector entities.
            (4) Academic institutions, including colleges, 
        universities, and wildland fire research institutions.
    (f) Data Sharing and Collaboration.--The Administrator shall 
facilitate the sharing of data, tools, and research findings with 
operational users and other relevant stakeholders to ensure effective 
use of NASA's capabilities in wildland fire management.
    (g) Firesense Project Evaluation.--The Administrator shall 
periodically evaluate the effectiveness of FireSense and make necessary 
adjustments to improve its impact on wildland fire management.
    (h) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and annually thereafter for five years, the 
Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report on the activities and accomplishments of FireSense, including 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of interagency coordination efforts.
            (2) FireSense's impact on wildland fire management efforts.
            (3) A list of emerging wildland fire management 
        technologies and opportunities that may be considered for 
        further research, development, demonstration, and deployment.
            (4) An assessment of existing challenges to effective 
        coordination with operational users, including State, local, 
        and Tribal governments.

SEC. 623. IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS BY THE NATIONAL WILDLAND 
              FIRE MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION COMMISSION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Wildland fires pose a significant threat to public 
        safety, property, and natural resources.
            (2) The National Wildland Fire Management and Mitigation 
        Commission (in this section referred to as the ``Commission'') 
        has provided critical recommendations for enhancing wildland 
        fire science, data, and technology resources.
            (3) The Administration, through the Science Mission 
        Directorate, has the capability to support and enhance wildland 
        fire management through its advanced research and technological 
        expertise.
    (b) Incorporation of Recommendations.--The Administrator, in 
accordance with the goal for NASA's Earth science and applications 
program set forth in section 60501 of title 51, United States Code, and 
relevant recommendations of the most recent decadal survey on Earth 
science and applications from space, shall incorporate the 
recommendations of the Commission, to the extent practicable, which may 
include continuing to carry out the following:
            (1) Enhancing the collection, analysis, and dissemination 
        of data related to wildland fires, including satellite and 
        remote sensing data.
            (2) Supporting research and development projects aimed at 
        improving wildland fire prediction, prevention, response, and 
        recovery.
            (3) Developing and deploying technologies that can assist 
        in monitoring, detecting, and mitigating wildland fires.
            (4) Conducting studies on the impact of climate change on 
        wildland fire behavior, frequency, and intensity.
    (c) Interagency Coordination.--The Administrator shall continue to 
coordinate, as practicable, with other Federal, State, local, and 
Tribal entities to integrate the Commission's recommendations into 
broader wildland fire management efforts. Such coordination may include 
the following:
            (1) Facilitating the sharing of wildland fire-related data 
        and research findings with relevant agencies and stakeholders.
            (2) Participating in joint initiatives and projects aimed 
        at enhancing wildland fire management capabilities.
    (d) Evaluation.--The Administrator shall conduct periodic 
evaluations of NASA's efforts to incorporate the Commission's 
recommendations and make adjustments as necessary to maximize the 
effectiveness of such recommendations to support wildland fire 
mitigation and management efforts.
    (e) Reporting.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report detailing the activities 
undertaken by NASA to implement the Commission's recommendations, 
including the following:
            (1) A summary of research and development projects 
        initiated or supported.
            (2) An assessment of the impact of such activities on 
        wildland fire management and mitigation efforts.
            (3) Any challenges or obstacles encountered in implementing 
        such recommendations.

                       TITLE VII--STEM EDUCATION

SEC. 701. NATIONAL SPACE GRANT COLLEGE AND FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Amendments.--Title 51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 40303, by striking subsections (d) and (e);
            (2) in section 40304--
                    (A) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(c) Solicitations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall issue a 
        solicitation from space grant consortia for the award of grants 
        or contracts under this section at the conclusion of the award 
        cycle for fiscal Year 2020 to 2024. The Administrator shall 
        implement the allocation guidance from section 40304(e) during 
        each fiscal year covered by the award cycle.
            ``(2) Proposals.--A lead institution of a space grant 
        consortium that seeks a grant or contract under this section 
        shall submit, on behalf of such space grant consortium, an 
        application to the Administrator at such time and in such 
        manner and accompanied by such information as the Administrator 
        may require.
            ``(3) Awards.--The Administrator shall award 1 or more 
        multi-year grants or contracts, disbursed in annual 
        installments, to the lead institution of an eligible space 
        grant consortium of--
                    ``(A) each of the 50 States of the United States;
                    ``(B) the District of Columbia; and
                    ``(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.''; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (d) the 
                following:
    ``(e) Allocation of Funding.--
            ``(1) Program implementation.--To carry out the purposes 
        set forth in section 40301 of this title, each fiscal year, of 
        the funds appropriated for this program of that fiscal year, 
        the Administrator shall allocate not less than 85 percent among 
        eligible space grant consortia as follows:
                    ``(A) The space grant consortia identified in 
                paragraph 40304(c)(3) shall each receive an equal 
                share.
                    ``(B) The territories of Guam and the U.S. Virgin 
                Islands shall each receive funds equal to one-fifth of 
                the share for each space grant consortium.
            ``(2) Program administration.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each fiscal year, of the funds 
                made available for the National Space Grant College and 
                Fellowship Program, the Administrator shall allocate 
                not more than 10 percent for the administration of the 
                program.
                    ``(B) Costs covered.--The funds allocated under 
                paragraph (1)(A) of this section shall cover all costs 
                of the Administration associated with the 
                administration of the National Space Grant College and 
                Fellowship Program, including--
                            ``(i) direct costs to the program, 
                        including costs relating to support services 
                        and civil service salaries and benefits;
                            ``(ii) indirect general and administrative 
                        costs of centers and facilities of the 
                        Administration; and
                            ``(iii) indirect general and administrative 
                        costs of the Administration headquarters.
            ``(3) Special opportunities.--Each fiscal year, of the 
        funds made available for the National Space Grant College and 
        Fellowship program, the Administrator shall allocate not more 
        than 5 percent to lead institutions of Space Grant Consortia 
        for grants to carry out innovative approaches and programs to 
        further science and education relating to the missions of the 
        Administration pursuant to subsection (b).''.
    (b) Review.--The Administrator shall make arrangements for an 
independent external review of the National Space Grant College and 
Fellowship Program to--
            (1) evaluate its management, accomplishments, approach to 
        funding allocation as described in section 40303(e) of title 
        51, United States Code, and responsiveness to the purposes and 
        goals defined in chapter 403 of title 51, United States Code;
            (2) consider the benefits partnerships with local education 
        agencies, including those in underserved and rural areas, may 
        provide; and
            (3) propose any statutory updates that may be needed to 
        implement recommendations of the review.
    (c) Report.--Not later than nine months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall transmit a report on the 
independent external review of the National Space Grant College and 
Fellowship Program described in subsection (a) to the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

SEC. 702. SKILLED TECHNICAL WORKFORCE EDUCATION OUTREACH.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator may conduct or support STEM 
engagement activities that focus on expanding opportunities for 
students to pursue skilled technical workforce occupations in space and 
aeronautics.
    (b) Leveraging Existing Programs.--The Administrator, in conducting 
activities pursuant to subsection (a), shall consider leveraging, as 
appropriate, existing programs of NASA or other Federal programs and 
interagency initiatives, such as the Manufacturing USA program under 
section 34 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act 
(15 U.S.C. 278s).
    (c) Inclusion.--Activities under subsection (a) may include 
outreach activities that engage secondary and post-secondary students, 
including students at institutions of higher education, two-year 
colleges, and high schools, and students in vocational or career and 
technical education programs, and that--
            (1) expose students to careers that require career and 
        technical education;
            (2) encourage students to pursue careers that require 
        career and technical education; and
            (3) provide students hands-on learning opportunities to 
        view the manufacturing, assembly, and testing of NASA-funded 
        space and aeronautical systems, as the Administrator considers 
        appropriate and with consideration of relevant factors such as 
        workplace safety, mission needs, and the protection of 
        sensitive and proprietary technologies.
    (d) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the NASA's activities, 
and any planned activities, conducted pursuant to this section.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (2) Skilled technical workforce.--The term ``skilled 
        technical workforce'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        4(b)(3) of the Innovations in Mentoring, Training, and 
        Apprenticeships Act (42 U.S.C. 1862p note; Public Law 115-402).

                        TITLE VIII--POLICY/NASA

SEC. 801. MAJOR PROGRAMS.

    Section 30104 of title 51, United States Code, is amended in 
subsection (a)(1) by striking ``7120.5E, dated August 14, 2012'' and 
inserting ``7120.5F, dated August 3, 2021''.

SEC. 802. NASA ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    (a) Consultation and Advice.--Section 20113(g) of title 51, United 
States Code, is amended by adding ``and Congress'' after ``advice to 
the Administration''.
    (b) Sunset.--Effective September 30, 2028, section 20113(g) of 
title 51, United States Code, is amended by striking ``and Congress''.

SEC. 803. NASA ASSESSMENT OF EARLY COST ESTIMATES.

    Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General shall transmit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a review of the development, application, and 
assessment of early cost estimates made prior to preliminary design 
review for NASA missions. The review may include--
            (1) an assessment of NASA processes related to the 
        formation and evaluation of proposed and early-stage cost 
        estimates;
            (2) an evaluation of NASA's monitoring and management of 
        cost estimates throughout mission development, in accordance 
        with section 10861(b)(4) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167); 
        and
            (3) any such recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        determines appropriate.

SEC. 804. INDEPENDENT COST ESTIMATE.

    Section 30307 of title 51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``analysis'' and 
        inserting ``estimate''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``Before any funds may be obligated 
                for implementation'' and inserting ``After the 
                Administrator completes the preliminary design 
                review'';
                    (B) by striking ``analysis'' and inserting 
                ``estimate''; and
                    (C) by inserting after the first sentence, ``No 
                funds may be obligated for implementation of the 
                project before the Administrator reports the results of 
                the life-cycle cost estimate to Congress.''.

SEC. 805. OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY, POLICY, AND STRATEGY REPORT.

    Not later than January 1, 2025, and annually thereafter, the Office 
of Technology, Policy, and Strategy shall prepare and submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the efforts of 
the Office during the previous calendar year and priorities of the 
Office for the upcoming calendar year, as practicable.

SEC. 806. AUTHORIZATION FOR THE TRANSFER TO NASA OF FUNDS FROM OTHER 
              AGENCIES FOR SCIENTIFIC OR ENGINEERING RESEARCH OR 
              EDUCATION.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (f) of section 20113 of title 51, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``In the performance of its functions'' and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--In the performance of its functions''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Treatment.--Funds available to any department or 
        agency of the Federal Government for scientific or engineering 
        research or education, or the provision of facilities therefor, 
        shall, subject to the approval of the head of such department 
        or agency or as delegated pursuant to such department's or 
        agency's regulation, be available for transfer, in whole or in 
        part, to the Administration for such use as is consistent with 
        the purposes for which such funds were appropriated. Funds so 
        transferred shall be merged with the appropriation to which 
        transferred, except that such transferred funds shall be 
        limited to the awarding of grants or cooperative agreements for 
        scientific or engineering research or education.''.
    (b) Annual Information on Funds Transferred.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        the enactment of this section, the Administrator shall include 
        in the annual budget justification materials of the 
        Administration, as submitted to Congress with the President's 
        budget request under section 1105 of title 31, United States 
        Code, information describing the activities conducted under 
        subsection (f) of section 20113 of title 51, United States Code 
        (as amended by subsection (a)), during the immediately 
        preceding fiscal year.
            (2) Contents.--The information referred to in paragraph (1) 
        shall contain a description of each transfer of funds under the 
        authority provided for in paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of 
        section 20113 of title 51, United States Code (as added and 
        amended, respectively, by this section), during the immediately 
        preceding fiscal year, including the following:
                    (A) An identification of the department or agency 
                of the Federal Government from which such funds were 
                transferred.
                    (B) The total amount of funds so transferred, 
                disaggregated by each such department or agency.
                    (C) The purposes for which such funds were 
                appropriated to each agency or department.
                    (D) The program or activity of the Administration 
                to which such funds were made available by each such 
                transfer.
                    (E) The purposes of each such administration 
                program or activity, and the amount of funding 
                appropriated to the Administration for such purposes.
    (c) Report.--Not later than three years after the date of enactment 
of the section, the Administrator of the Administration shall submit to 
the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate a report that includes the following:
            (1) A summary of the value of the authority provided for in 
        paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of section 209113 of title 51, 
        United States Code (as added and amended, respectively, by this 
        section), including the extent to which such authority has 
        benefited the Administration and its ability to meet its needs, 
        achieve its mission, or more effectively conduct interagency 
        collaborations.
            (2) An identification of any barriers or challenges to 
        implementing such authority, or otherwise to managing funding 
        required to conduct joint programs and award jointly funded 
        grants and cooperative agreements by the administration with 
        other Federal departments and agencies to advance the missions 
        of each such department and agency.

SEC. 807. PROCEDURE FOR LAUNCH SERVICES RISK MITIGATION.

    (a) Assessment.--The Administrator shall enter into an arrangement 
for an independent external assessment of the effectiveness and 
efficiency of NASA's approach towards launch services risk mitigation 
in the Administration's Procedural Requirements 8610.7D.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days from the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees 
of Congress the following:
            (1) The report of the assessment conducted under subsection 
        (a).
            (2) NASA response to the findings of the report, if any.

SEC. 808. REPORT ON MERITS AND OPTIONS FOR ESTABLISHING AN INSTITUTE 
              RELATING TO SPACE RESOURCES.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator and Secretary shall jointly 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the merits 
of, and options for, establishing an institute relating to space 
resources to advance the objectives of NASA and the Department in 
maintaining United States preeminence in space. Such objectives shall 
include the following:
            (1) Identifying, developing, and distributing space 
        resources, including by encouraging the development of 
        foundational science, industrial capability, and technology.
            (2) Reducing the technological and business risks 
        associated with identifying, developing, and distributing space 
        resources.
            (3) Research to maximize the responsible use of space 
        resources.
            (4) Developing options for using space resources to carry 
        out the following.
                    (A) Support current and future space architectures, 
                programs, business, and missions.
                    (B) Enable such architectures, programs, business, 
                and missions that would not otherwise be possible.
                    (C) Supplement the supply of such resources 
                available on Earth.
    (b) Additional Matters.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall also include the following assessments of the Administrator and 
the Secretary:
            (1) Whether a virtual or physical institute relating to 
        space resources is most cost effective and appropriate.
            (2) Whether partnering with institutions of higher 
        education and the aerospace industry, and the extractive 
        industry as appropriate, would be effective in increasing 
        information available to the institute with respect to 
        advancing the objectives described in such subsection.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Commerce.
            (2) Extractive industry.--The term ``extractive industry'' 
        means companies and individuals involved in the processes of 
        extracting, including mining, quarrying, drilling, and 
        dredging, raw, natural materials or energy sources.
            (3) Institute of higher education.--The term ``institution 
        of higher education'' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1001(a)).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Commerce.
            (5) Space resource.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``space resource'' means 
                an abiotic resource in situ in outer space.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``space resource'' 
                includes a raw, natural material or energy source.

SEC. 809. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    (a) Congressional Reports and Notices.--Any report or notice 
provided to Congress by NASA shall be provided to the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, 
concurrently with its delivery to any other Committee or office.
    (b) Reports on International Agreements.--If the United States 
becomes a signatory to an international agreement concerning outer 
space activities, the Administrator shall provide to the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report containing a copy of such agreement.

SEC. 810. CONTRACT FLEXIBILITY.

    Congress finds that NASA FAR Supplement (NFS) 1852.242-72, Denied 
Access to NASA Facilities instructs that for the period that NASA 
facilities were not accessible to contractor employees, the contracting 
officer may adjust the contract performance or delivery schedule, 
forego the work, reschedule the work, or consider requests for 
equitable adjustment to the contract.

SEC. 811. GAO REPORT.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall transmit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a review of fire and emergency 
services at NASA launch and reentry facilities that assesses the 
following:
            (1) Current capabilities and projected demands for NASA-
        provided fire and emergency services.
            (2) How demand for NASA-provided fire and emergency 
        services have been impacted by the following:
                    (A) An increased rate of launch and reentry 
                operations.
                    (B) An increased number of leases with commercial 
                launch and reentry service providers for use of NASA 
                property.
            (3) Current fire and emergency services provided by 
        commercial providers to support launch and reentry operations 
        that are conducted--
                    (A) to fulfill a contractual obligation with NASA; 
                or
                    (B) for non-NASA purposes using NASA-leased 
                property.
            (4) Whether NASA-provided and commercially-provided fire 
        and emergency services are able to meet current and projected 
        demands and support all fire response areas on NASA property.

SEC. 812. NASA PUBLIC-PRIVATE TALENT PROGRAM.

    Section 20113 of title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(o) Public-Private Talent Program.--
            ``(1) Assignment authority.--Under policies and procedures 
        prescribed by the Administration, the Administrator may, with 
        the agreement of a private sector entity and the consent of an 
        employee of the Administration or of such entity, arrange for 
        the temporary assignment of such employee of the Administration 
        to such private sector entity, or of such employee of such 
        entity to the Administration, as the case may be.
            ``(2) Agreements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall provide 
                for a written agreement among the Administration, the 
                private sector entity, and the employee concerned 
                regarding the terms and conditions of the employee's 
                assignment under this subsection. The agreement shall--
                            ``(i) require that the employee of the 
                        Administration, upon completion of the 
                        assignment, will serve in the Administration, 
                        or elsewhere in the civil service if approved 
                        by the Administrator, for a period equal to 
                        twice the length of the assignment;
                            ``(ii) provide that if the employee of the 
                        Administration or of the private sector entity 
                        (as the case may be) fails to carry out the 
                        agreement, such employee shall be liable to the 
                        United States for payment of all expenses of 
                        the assignment, unless such failure was for 
                        good and sufficient reason, as determined by 
                        the Administrator; and
                            ``(iii) contain language ensuring that such 
                        employee of the Administration or of the 
                        private sector entity (as the case may be) does 
                        not improperly use predecisional or draft 
                        deliberative information that such employee may 
                        be privy to or aware of related to 
                        Administration programing, budgeting, 
                        resourcing, acquisition, or procurement for the 
                        benefit or advantage of the private sector 
                        entity.
                    ``(B) Treatment.--An amount for which an employee 
                is liable under subparagraph (A) shall be treated as a 
                debt due the United States.
                    ``(C) Waiver.--The Administrator may waive, in 
                whole or in part, collection of a debt described in 
                subparagraph (B) based on a determination that the 
                collection would be against equity and good conscience 
                and not in the best interests of the United States, 
                after taking into account any indication of fraud, 
                misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the 
                part of the employee concerned.
            ``(3) Termination.--An assignment under this section may, 
        at any time and for any reason, be terminated by the 
        Administration or the private-sector entity concerned, as the 
        case may be.
            ``(4) Duration.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An assignment under this 
                subsection shall be for a period of not less than three 
                months and not more than two years, renewable up to a 
                total of three years. An employee of the Administration 
                may not be assigned under this subsection for more than 
                a total of three years inclusive of all such 
                assignments.
                    ``(B) Extension.--An assignment under this 
                subsection may be for a period in excess of two years, 
                but not more than three years, if the Administrator 
                determines that such assignment is necessary to meet 
                critical mission or program requirements.
            ``(5) Policies and procedures.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall 
                establish policies and procedures relating to 
                assignments under this subsection.
                    ``(B) Elements.--Policies and procedures 
                established pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall address 
                the following:
                            ``(i) The nature and elements of written 
                        agreements with participants in assignments 
                        under this subsection.
                            ``(ii) Criteria for making such 
                        assignments, including the needs of the 
                        Administration relating thereto.
                            ``(iii) How the Administration will oversee 
                        such assignments, in particular with respect to 
                        paragraphs (2)(A)(iii), (7)(C), and (7)(D).
                            ``(iv) Criteria for issuing waivers.
                            ``(v) How expenses under paragraph 
                        (2)(A)(ii) would be determined.
                            ``(vi) Guidance for participants in such 
                        assignments.
                            ``(vii) Mission Directorate, Office, and 
                        organizational structure to implement and 
                        manage such assignments.
                            ``(viii) Any other necessary policies, 
                        procedures, or guidelines to ensure such 
                        assignments comply with all relevant statutory 
                        authorities and ethics rules, and effectively 
                        contribute to one or more of the 
                        Administration's missions.
                    ``(C) Inherently governmental activities.--
                Assignments made under this subsection shall not have 
                responsibilities or perform duties or decision making 
                regarding Administration activities that are inherently 
                governmental, pursuant to subpart 7.500 of title 48, 
                Code of Federal Regulations, and Office of Management 
                and Budget review.
            ``(6) Status of federal employees assigned to private 
        sector entities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An employee of the 
                Administration who is assigned to a private sector 
                entity under this subsection shall be considered, 
                during the period of such assignment, to be on detail 
                to a regular work assignment in the Administration for 
                all purposes. The written agreement established under 
                paragraph (2)(A) shall address the specific terms and 
                conditions related to such employee's continued status 
                as a Federal employee.
                    ``(B) Certification.--In establishing a temporary 
                assignment of an employee of the Administration to a 
                private sector entity, the Administrator shall certify 
                that such temporary assignment shall not have an 
                adverse or negative impact on the mission of the 
                Administration or organizational capabilities 
                associated with such assignment.
            ``(7) Terms and conditions for private sector employees.--
        An employee of a private sector entity who is assigned to the 
        Administration under this subsection--
                    ``(A) shall continue to receive pay and benefits 
                from the private sector entity from which such employee 
                is assigned and shall not receive pay or benefits from 
                the Administration, except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B);
                    ``(B) is deemed to be an employee of the 
                Administration for the purposes of--
                            ``(i) chapters 73 and 81 of title 5;
                            ``(ii) sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 
                        209, 603, 606, 607, 643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of 
                        title 18, except that such section 209 does not 
                        apply to any salary, or contribution or 
                        supplementation of salary made pursuant to 
                        subparagraph (A) of this paragraph;
                            ``(iii) sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of 
                        title 31;
                            ``(iv) the Federal Tort Claims Act and any 
                        other Federal tort liability statute;
                            ``(v) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978; 
                        and
                            ``(vi) chapter 21 of title 41;
                    ``(C) shall not have access to any trade secrets or 
                any other nonpublic information which is of commercial 
                value to the private sector entity from which such 
                employee is assigned;
                    ``(D) may not perform work that is considered 
                inherently governmental in nature, in accordance with 
                paragraph (5)(C); and
                    ``(E) may not be used to circumvent--
                            ``(i) section 1710 of title 41, United 
                        States Code; or
                            ``(ii) any limitation or restriction on the 
                        size of the Administration's civil servant 
                        workforce.
            ``(8) Additional requirements.--The Administrator shall 
        ensure that--
                    ``(A) the normal duties and functions of an 
                employee of the Administration who is assigned to a 
                private sector entity under this subsection can be 
                reasonably performed by other employees of the 
                Administration without the permanent transfer or 
                reassignment of other personnel of the Administration;
                    ``(B) normal duties and functions of such other 
                employees of the Administration are not, as a result of 
                and during the course of such temporary assignment, 
                performed or augmented by contractor personnel in 
                violation of section 1710 of title 41; and
                    ``(C) not more than two percent of the 
                Administration's civil servant workforce may 
                participate in an assignment under this subsection at 
                the same time.
            ``(9) Conflicts of interest.--The Administrator shall 
        implement a system to identify, mitigate, and manage any 
        conflicts of interests that may arise as a result of an 
        employee's assignment under this subsection.
            ``(10) Prohibition against charging certain costs to the 
        federal government.--A private-sector entity may not charge the 
        Administration or any other agency of the Federal Government, 
        as direct or indirect costs under a Federal contract, the costs 
        of pay or benefits paid by the entity to an employee assigned 
        to the Administration under this subsection for the period of 
        the assignment concerned.
            ``(11) Considerations.--In carrying out this subsection, 
        the Administrator shall take into consideration--
                    ``(A) the question of how assignments under this 
                subsection might best be used to help meet the needs of 
                the Administration with respect to the training of 
                employees; and
                    ``(B) where applicable, areas of particular private 
                sector expertise, such as cybersecurity.
            ``(12) NASA reporting.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than April 30 of each 
                year, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee 
                on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
                Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
                and Transportation of the Senate a report summarizing 
                the implementation of this subsection.
                    ``(B) Contents.--Each report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include, with respect to the annual period to 
                which such report relates, the following:
                            ``(i) Information relating to the total 
                        number of employees of private sector entities 
                        assigned to the Administration, and the total 
                        number of employees of the Administration 
                        assigned to private sector entities.
                            ``(ii) A brief description and assessment 
                        of the talent management benefits evidenced 
                        from such assignments, as well as any 
                        identified strategic human capital and 
                        operational challenges, including the 
                        following:
                                    ``(I) An identification of the 
                                names of the private sector entities to 
                                and from which employees were assigned.
                                    ``(II) A complete listing of 
                                positions such employees were assigned 
                                to and from.
                                    ``(III) An identification of 
                                assigned roles and objectives of such 
                                assignments.
                                    ``(IV) Information relating to the 
                                durations of such assignments.
                                    ``(V) Information relating to 
                                associated pay grades and levels.
                            ``(iii) An assessment of impacts of such 
                        assignments on the Administration workforce and 
                        workforce culture.
                            ``(iv) An identification of the number of 
                        Administration staff and budgetary resources 
                        required to implement this subsection.
            ``(13) Federal ethics.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        affect existing Federal ethics rules applicable to Federal 
        personnel.
            ``(14) GAO reporting.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than three years after 
                the date of the enactment of this subsection, the 
                Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
                to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
                the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
                Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
                report summarizing the implementation of this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include the following:
                            ``(i) A review of the implementation of 
                        this subsection, according to law and the 
                        Administration policies and procedures 
                        established for assignments under this 
                        subsection.
                            ``(ii) Information relating to the extent 
                        to which such assignments adhere to best 
                        practices relating to public-private talent 
                        exchange programs.
                            ``(iii) A determination as to whether there 
                        should be limitations on the number of 
                        individuals participating in such assignments.
                            ``(iv) Information relating to the extent 
                        to which the Administration complies with 
                        statutory requirements and ethics rules, and 
                        appropriately handles potential conflicts of 
                        interest and access to nonpublic information 
                        with respect to such assignments.
                            ``(v) Information relating to the extent to 
                        which such assignments effectively contribute 
                        to one or more of the Administration's 
                        missions.
                            ``(vi) Information relating to 
                        Administration resources, including employee 
                        time, dedicated to administering such 
                        assignments, and whether such resources are 
                        sufficient for such administration.''.

SEC. 813. REPORT ON SPACE ACT AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the following:
            (1) Intellectual property considerations in Space Act 
        agreements.
            (2) Feedback shared by industry groups regarding 
        intellectual property considerations in Space Act agreements.
            (3) Differences between NASA policies regarding 
        intellectual property in Space Act agreements and policies 
        utilized in similar situations by other Federal agencies.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Space Act agreements'' 
means agreements entered into by NASA pursuant to its authorities under 
the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (Public Law 85-568).

SEC. 814. MENTORING.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall establish a comprehensive 
NASA-wide mentoring program for early-career, mid-level, and senior-
level employees at all NASA Centers and NASA Headquarters to ensure a 
robust pipeline for NASA's civil servant workforce and support the 
preparation of employees, including those from populations that are 
historically underrepresented in STEM, for promotion and leadership 
roles.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate 
committees of Congress on the implementation of the subsection (a).

SEC. 815. DRINKING WATER WELL REPLACEMENT FOR CHINCOTEAGUE, VIRGINIA.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator may enter into an agreement, as appropriate, with the 
Town of Chincoteague, Virginia, for a period of up to five years, for 
reimbursement of the Town of Chincoteague's costs directly associated 
with the development of a plan for removal of drinking water wells 
currently situated on NASA-administered property and the establishment 
of alternative drinking water wells which are located on property under 
the administrative control, either through lease, ownership, or 
easement, of the Town of Chincoteague. Such agreement shall, to the 
extent practicable, include the three remaining wells to be removed and 
relocated, the location of the site to which such wells would be 
relocated or are planned to be relocated, and a current estimated cost 
of the relocation, including for the purchase, lease, or use of 
additional property, engineering, design, permitting, and construction.
    (b) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 18 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in coordination 
with the heads or other appropriate representatives of relevant 
entities, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress the 
agreement under subsection (a).

SEC. 816. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act may be construed to limit the ability of a NASA 
employee to discuss scientific research performed by such employee in 
accordance with NASA's scientific integrity policies.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 595

118th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 8958

                          [Report No. 118-701]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To reauthorize the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 23, 2024

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
</pre></body></html>
